It's always on your mind
You can't look your family in the eye.
Your friends begin to wonder what is wrong.

‘One of the nurses has been coming in to give me injections every day.
They've liaised with other organisations to make sure I've got somebody coming in, even if it's only to make me something to eat.
I don't know what I'd do with them.’

on behalf of a client
‘Thank you for all the help you gave to us and to Bob during the last few days of his illness — I only wish we'd been put in touch with ACET sooner.
I was particularly impressed by the way you managed to organise all the available services so efficiently — just at the time when we were beginning to wonder how we'd manage.’

However in October 1974 this message — addressed to a former inmate — was smuggled out of the infamous prison, Cuatro Alamos, on the inside of a cigarette packet.
Dearest Sandra,
I remember when I first met you at the house of terror; what you gave me, all that you gave me.

Three years of being a member of the Campaign Team at AI had not prepared me for seeing human rights abuses first hand.
President Bush's recent pronouncements on what is just and moral during the Gulf war left me feeling empty and bitter.
having been in the US's ‘back yard’ I know how little attention is paid to those issues there.

A number of the officers arrested were executed almost immediately.
Her father was sentenced to death.
The young woman remembers how her mother would leave home at 5am day after day, and wait in the Marmoura forest near where the King used to play golf in an effort to plead with him for her husband's life.

Can you see the point I am trying to make?
I hope so.
I am thirteen years old, and if ten years of my youth were taken over by four plain walls and nothing to do, I know how I would feel.

A personal friend of an artist may have a real advantage in writing criticism, as he may learn about artistic intentions which are not explained to others.
This places a critic in a privileged position, but also with a responsibility to make clear whether views expressed are those of the critic or those of the artist.
This distinction can be limpid if the artist is directly interviewed, and the interview is verbatim; but there are problems of evidence with filming and tape recordings, as well as with interviews, since the viewer or reader is unlikely to know how they have been edited.

But her selected information has a welcome sharpness:
Even the opening report of him comes from an unusual source — his own vivid memory of how he learned to walk.
More than sixty years after the event, while watching a child of his own try out his first steps, he suddenly stated in reminiscence and satisfaction to his most intimate Spanish friend, ‘I remember that I learned to walk by pushing a big tin box of sweet biscuits in front of me because I knew what was inside.’

Kenya Asians are now working hard in the darkness and grime of British cities, where Patel is among the commonest names in the telephone directory.
Salim is bound by certain of the rules and assumptions of kinship.
His kin are entrepreneurs, a wandering bourgeoisie: they have known what it is to be strangers in tight corners, as he himself is a stranger in this tight African town.

But  being consoled by another mother who seems unfrustrating makes it harder to reconcile the two…’.
This appears to be a key point, but it is one that is left controversial.
It is possible to imagine that for some people such consolation might make it easier to reconcile the two, and to wonder what it was that made the difference in Fraser's case.

And the family was never heard of again.
Glasser orders his events thematically, while also wanting to tell a story and to spring surprises.
Charlie's departure is the first of several, and this event is succeeded by the announcement of a further theme when the rabbi's thunderings pass over the heads of his congregation and the writer notes: ‘in later years I would wonder how different my life might have been if a few people, those closest to me,had been frightened — just  a little.’

And perhaps we might imagine that they are the same but different.
Eliot was to tell the poet F. T. Prince: ‘Not everything you write is very interesting .’
This could be said with some emphasis of Chatterton, but not of Eliot himself, who moreover survived, who grew to be famous, who did not kill himself, though he was to wonder how one might set about dying.

Many of his most memorable literary effects attest to this.
In The Unbearable Lightness of Being , the Czech exile Sabina disturbs her French friends by being unable to last out a parade held to protest against the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968: ‘She would have liked to tell them that behind Communism, Fascism, behind all occupations and invasions lurks a more basic, pervasive evil and that the image of that evil was a parade of people marching by with raised fists and shouting identical syllables in unison.’
The British reader, who is likely to have been spared certain of the varieties of suffering which are spoken of in the writings of Kundera and Klima, where a joke, or no joke, or nothing whatever, can sequester you for years from the people you grew up with, is in a position, for all that, to know what Sabina means here.

WE live at a time when reporters go to foreign countries where there is trouble and come back to write books in which they say that it was hard to make out what was going on.
When they say this, they are apt to be called writers.
Writers don't know what is going on.

Face hated face, the common ones clashing with the noble ones, the grasping ones against the weaklings.
Face crushed face, but even the humiliated ones, the ones pushed away, the third-raters and the defeated ones, even those — from a certain distance imposed by the law of hierarchy, it's true — still moved toward the front, showing here and there from behind the first-rate, titled ones, if only as  fragments: an ear, a piece of temple, a cheek or a jaw…just to be closer to the Emperor's eye!
It is not easy to know how far Kafka's fictions can be thought to answer descriptively to the historical realities of his time, let alone to those which his fictions are often thought to have predicted.

Face crushed face, but even the humiliated ones, the ones pushed away, the third-raters and the defeated ones, even those — from a certain distance imposed by the law of hierarchy, it's true — still moved toward the front, showing here and there from behind the first-rate, titled ones, if only as  fragments: an ear, a piece of temple, a cheek or a jaw…just to be closer to the Emperor's eye!
It is not easy to know how far Kafka's fictions can be thought to answer descriptively to the historical realities of his time, let alone to those which his fictions are often thought to have predicted.
And it is not easy to know how far Kapuscinski's book is a book about a bygone Ethiopia.

Convinced of his own plainness, Graham is here engaged in taking Jenny out and making a mess of kissing her.
Jenny is nice about the mess, but disturbed by what he tells her — in words that call to mind the language, and the drift, of this poem and others by Larkin, and of passages in Larkin's fiction where Jack is denied his Jill.
You can't imagine what it's like not to know what it is to meet an attractive person who's also attracted to you, can you?

As the world knows, Roth grew up in Newark, New Jersey, a second-generation American Jew, and he was to turn into a citizen of the world, a famous cosmopolitan author.
In middle age he has experienced a breakdown, an identity crisis, which followed a long illness and an operation.
He felt a need to discover who he was, and to write directly about that, and about his books, to step out of the shadows.

The ‘distrustful fellow’ of the past is present, and not just as a  commemorative item.
A multiple Roth is once again in evidence.
He knows how important to the power of his writings had been his fight with the Jews and the outrageous candour of his sexual descriptions, and in the recent writings this knowledge is conveyed by the proximity of an imagined truce to an imagined impotence.

This is a state which Zuckerman experiences and which he sends up.
In the fictional conversation about adverse publicity a good mother meets a son anxious to reassure her, while alive to the comedy of it.
‘As long as you know what you're doing’, she ventures, adding: ‘And as long as you know that it is right.’

It was lively enough to marry Bellow to a ‘stylish Radcliffe graduate’ of whom Roth had been ‘enamoured’— if we are to assume that The Facts has not imagined the connection.
It is a connection not unlike some of those made in the fiction of both authors.
The memoir sets us asking if Philip Roth knows who he is.

It's almost all Doyle.
If this is a problem, however, it is one the novel shares with many of the novels we now read.
We are aware, in the novels we read, both of an authorial identification with the leading character or the first-person narrator, and of material that might constitute an authorial judgement in that respect: but we don't know what the verdict is.

So does Doyle.
A high point in the novel is the altercation and huff with Gavin and his mates which precedes this: about the long holidays teachers get, or don't get, about the homework they withhold, and about the rights of weans — children — and the rights of parents.
Patrick said: Do you know what I tell parents Arthur?

Patrick held both hands up in a gesture of peace, he smiled for a moment; I'm no trying to get at you personally but I just fucking feel that you cant expect the teacher to be the everything, the heavyweight boxing champion of the world.
Arthur stared at him.
Know what I mean, I'm just being honest with ye.

Naw.
You show me what you're talking about.
I think I know what Paddy means, said Davie.

I think I know what Paddy means, said Davie.
Good, tell me, replied Gavin.
I think I know what you mean Paddy.

Approach to drama training
One of the questions you may be asking yourself is ‘Can I be taught to act?’
This is something everyone wonders when starting out, even if they are not intending to make a living out of acting.

If you have been badly coached it will show everywhere.
So it's another of those difficult personal decisions.
Choose your coach with care; be sure that they know what they are doing for the theatre and actor of today.

At your employment; at your service, sir:’
‘No, sir,’ says Question, ‘I, sweet sir, at yours;’
And so, ere Answer knows what Question would,

Rosaline is very much a match for Berowne; this is her last challenge to him, at a moment in the play when death has blown all comedy away.
Her challenge is, in itself, almost cruelly witty, and Rosaline must be seen to relish the situation, rather than becoming priggish.
Essentially, what she wants is for Berowne to discover what is serious in life, and to stop fooling all the time.

And that is what I found.
From the ashes there arose, by public subscription, a new Daily Citizen , responsible and relatively free.
He leans towards WagnerDo you know what I mean by a relatively free press, Mr Wagner?…

…
In a village near Amiens, I found a shop where you can still get tea, and enough cakes to make a schoolboy sick for a week.
I'll remember when (go up the line…

I shall feel again as soon as I dare, but now I must not.
I don't take the cigarette out of my mouth when I write ‘Deceased’ across their letters…
Siegfried, I don't know what you'll think, but I've been recommended for the MC — and I've recommended every single NCO who was with me.

I think it's all over for a long time.
Moreover, the war is nearing an end.
Do you know what you will do?

I'm just tellin' y' about round our way.
I wanna be on this course findin' out.
You know what I learn from you, about art an' literature, it feeds me, inside.

The first year you're running on adrenalin and you're going to take on the world.
The second year you realise that it's terribly, terribly hard.
I remember when I left Central School in 1966 they said the average life for a woman in the theatre was three years and seven for a man before giving it up.

And I think you find it goes beyond drama school, in say a company like the RSC, where we have the top person in voice but do not have the equal in physical advice and guidance.
A R. What you are saying is that everyone seems to miss the work of Litz Pisk [a legendary movement teacher at Central School]who had such movement sense.
A S. I remember when I was working as a dogsbody in the 59 Theatre Company in Manchester a group of Central School students came to be the spirits in a production of The Tempest and these were Pisk trained and had, it seemed to me then, a marvellous range of body language.

I was told there was an acting scholarship going and I was broke so I took an audition and by a marvellous chance, won the scholarship.
A.R.
Can you remember what you did?

Criticism of the Irish constitution itself from both clergy and laity  produced one first change in the constitution.
The famous paragraph of Article 42 intending to give pride of place to the Roman catholic church in the state was removed by referendum in 1972, along with the accompanying paragraph recognizing other existing religious groups.
The Roman catholic hierarchy declared that they had no opposition to this particular change, but one wonders how the vote would have gone if they had.

Never before, he wrote, have I seen so clearly how to end.
Now I have finally begun, he wrote, I have only to go on and the end will arrive.
And to think, he wrote, that with all my previous work I barely knew what step to take first, let alone what step to take second, let us not talk about the third.

Now I have finally begun, he wrote, I have only to go on and the end will arrive.
And to think, he wrote, that with all my previous work I barely knew what step to take first, let alone what step to take second, let us not talk about the third.
Though it has to be said, he wrote, and Goldberg, his eye racing down the page covered in his friend's tiny handwriting, paused to sip from the glass of fresh orange-juice at his side, wiped his forehead and went on typing, it has to be said that I have occasionally had the illusion that I knew what step to take first and even, occasionally, what step to take second, I will not talk about a third.

Worthy men, he wrote, full of the mystery and importance of their Calling.
On the other hand, he wrote, there are people like Goldberg, like Moss and McGrindle, who believe in nothing, except perhaps in personal power and glory, though they would like to believe in something ‘higher’.
I frankly do not know which I prefer, wrote Harsnet.

Though it is never possible to be sure one is doing the right thing, he wrote.
There  are always moments of doubt .
After the initial impetus has run out, he wrote, and before one has got in so far that it is easier to finish than to go back, it is then that it becomes hard to be sure of your footing , hard to know why you are doing what you are doing, hard to know if you are doing correctly what you are doing.

Do not retreat into irony, he wrote.
One last thought on the subject and then basta: they — Moss and McGrindle, etc. 
— imagine that something drives one on, a clear vision, that one knows  what one is doing.

But what if at the moment of birth the whole of one's life to come were to flash before one's eyes and then to be immediately wiped away, forgotten, while we laboriously go through all the pleasures and sorrows, all the hopes and frustrations that make up a life, meeting people and parting from them, listening to them and speaking to them, to go through tasting all we taste in the course of our long lives, seeing all we see, every leaf at every moment and every cloud at every moment, and hearing  all we hear, the hooting of every car and the singing of every bird and every performance of the Brandenburg concertos, go through all that, in time, very slowly, though we had already been through it all, every moment of it, leaf, cloud, concerto, in one brief but intense instant, everything perfectly formed but over in less than a second?
And the reverse of that, wrote Harsnet, the feeling that all we have already felt and seen and heard has yet to happen, is so far only a dream, a fantasy, and the sense, he wrote, that this may be a feeling we experience again and again throughout our lives, that the elements of experience have failed to catch on to the glass of our lives, or that the glass is there and waiting for the experience to be registered, that it can wait for ever, for it does not know the meaning of time.
All that and more went through my mind, wrote Harsnet, as I sat there in the moonlight in the silence, but it was as if it was the glass which was telling me this, that the glass was my mind as I thought that, or my mind the glass, and that was the reason for the fear and the cold and also for the sense of growing excitement and a fear then, a different kind of fear, that I would not be able to do  anything with this excitement, that it would be my failure, my failure to realize what I now saw were the real possibilities of the glass, a failure for which I would never be able to forgive myself, though a part of me would always know or perhaps only believe that it was in the nature of my insight that there could be no realization of it, that it was precisely an insight about non-realization, but by then, wrote Harsnet, it had all become too complicated, too extreme, I did not want to know any of it until it was all over, until I had made my effort, perhaps it had been a mistake to come in and sit there with the glass through the night with the moon shining so brightly, it must have been full, or nearly full, unnaturally bright anyway, something to do with the solstice perhaps, to sit in the room with the glass alone or with the moon alone might have been bearable, in the dark with the glass or in the moonlight in an empty room, but the two together, the glass and the moon, that was perhaps the mistake.

My best picture, he said.
The only one I ever felt got near to saying what I wanted to say.
It might have won, I said, and you know what you think of prizes.

Where? he said.
Show me where on the map.
I don't know where on the map, I said.

The idea of the directed arbitrary.
My search for the right kind of toy cannon.
I knew what I wanted, but I couldn't find it.

No, he wrote.
My sense of how to go on determined by the vividness of my imagination of what it will be like when done.
A struggle to realize what in some sense already exists .

Leading me where I have always wanted to go yet never known how.
Understood that after w/e in Wiltshire.
Going away as a means of discovering what was really happening here, he wrote.

It was discussed with passion and anxiety in small groups and in large assemblies, in salons and cafés, in bars and in clubs.
Friends talked the matter over far into the night and then went home, to their families or to the loneliness of dingy bed-sitting rooms, to carry on the debate in diaries and notebooks, poems and letters.
No one knew what had first led to the rumour that soon images would die, nor how the rumour had grown into conviction and conviction into certainty.

Leaving the children will destroy me.
But then living with her is destroying me.
You don't know what it means.

No doubt if I had responded to Hilda and Annie and the rest as they told me I should respond, as they all told me my true nature, my deeper  nature was crying out to respond, I would be surrounded today by love and wives and children and the rest.
Goldberg a living example of the folly of such dreams, he wrote.
Not so much the compromises, the deceits, the hypocrisies affecting his work, his women, his children, even his friends, but the sense of despair and failure hovering over him, as though he was trapped and didn't know how it had happened or what he should or could do.

I had thought at the time, wrote Goldberg, turning the page, wiping his brow, taking a sip of orange juice from the glass on the desk beside him, dreaming for a moment of the cigarettes he had given up two years earlier, I had thought, he wrote, that an edited version of the text, with only those comments directly concerned with the Big Glass included, would serve you best.
I had to put the project aside for a while, he wrote, as the rent had to be paid, not to speak of alimony, school fees and the rest, and, coming back to it after a considerable period, much longer, unfortunately, than I had anticipated, and I will not even try to apologize since you gave me a completely free hand — anyway, he wrote, trying to ignore the damp spots left on the page of his pad by his sweaty hands, anyway, coming back to it after all that time I realized that it would be quite impossible in practice to separate the valuable and the worthless, the public and the private, and that, in a sense, one would have to think in terms of either publishing the whole thing exactly as it stood , or not doing it at all.
Though there is a good deal there which I found deeply offensive, he wrote, as you must have realized when you sent me the stuff, though, knowing you as I do, I suspect it may not even have crossed your mind, anyway, to be brief, I have, of course, put my feelings to one side and decided to honour the integrity of.

Excuses not to do the work we think we might or should do, excuses not to be kind or considerate or whatever it is we feel we should be?
What he wanted, wrote Harsnet (typed Goldberg) and what I wanted.
The difference  is that I knew what I wanted and he did not .

If there was ever a time to change things radically that time has long passed.
And I would not give another year of my life to a new version, he wrote.
I knew when I first thought of it, he wrote, when I first set it up, that it was to be the final piece.

Usual stories about true love at last.
About need to pay for daughter's education.
You don't know how much a growing girl needs, etc.

Not to be sidetracked for any reason whatsoever .
Not to give in to temptation,no matter what form it takes .
But difficult at times to remember why I ever made such a plan, he wrote.

And it's not very different in the West.
Time we all moved on to Mars.
We need to realize what we've done to other species.

Perhaps there is still something in it, but not for me, he wrote.
Perhaps there is still something in it, but I can no longer see it.
When I think about it, he  wrote, I find it difficult to remember why I ever embarked on it.

Too late for such words and much too late to suppress them.
The thing about my life, he wrote, is that everything has always been too late.
I was born too late and I discovered what I wanted to do too late and what I did I did too late and my death is about to come far too late.

Sometimes it takes a little while to realize you really have lost interest in something, I said to him.
That it isn't that you've got up on the wrong side or eaten something which didn't agree with you or just need a few days' rest.
It takes a little time to sec that you're not moving forward any more, either because you don't know how or because there isn't anywhere to move forward to.

No, I said, I don't feel that.
You've done what you wanted? he asked.
I no longer know what I wanted, I said.

Bruce Doblin, a doctor at the University of California, said he was stunned by his bill from the Academy Hotel in Gower Street, London.
He subsequently received a discount of just over £50 after complaining about the telephone charge.
Mr Doblin claimed that no-one at the hotel seemed to know what the cost of a telephone call should be.

But there is also the flip side of the coin.
Customers return because they feel food about the product or service.
So it is just as important to know what it is about your organisation that customers value so that you can promote it fully.

‘For this reason, purchasing from brochures or purchasing from a system demonstration on-site is simply inadequate.
In-depth evaluation of suppliers, their premises and personnel structures is vitally important.’
Potentially the customer holds the strong cards at this stage of the discussion: the hotelier or restaurateur knows what his business problems are and knows what the computer system is going to have to achieve — and the potential buyer, who has thought this through before the supplier appears, is more likely to end up with the right system.

They require the catalytic action of water to release hotness.
Crushed and wetted, a chemical reaction occurs between the enzyme myrosin and a glucoside, a sugar-related chemical, to create the essential oil of mustard.
The change takes place only with cold water, a point worth remembering when preparing English mustard from powder.

‘All the fault of that dreadful song.
How that girl can bring herself to sit there singing it I can't imagine.
You know who she is, don't you?’

No, whole thing's perfectly above board.’
‘You are most well informed, madam,’ Sven Hjerson said, a little drily.
‘Oh, well, you know how it is.

‘Did you notice?’
‘It is my business always to make notices.
But, alas, madam, I do not in the present know what it is you are asking if I am seeing.’

He has trained the eyes to do it.
I was telling you, was I not, that I was seeing with exactness what the English workman was doing while we were waiting to ascend.
I know how the funicular is  operating.

‘Dash it all,’ she said, ‘Lord Woodleigh spoke very sharply to the fellow when we were on the boat.
And these Italians are fearfully hot-headed.
Everybody knows what foreigners are like.’

Sergeant Bramble allowed himself the luxury of a fleeting smile.
Perhaps, who knows, the great Hoskins might yet grace King's Magnum Parva with his presence.
Sergeant Bramble drank some tea and wondered where Constable Quince had got to.

So I tell you what.
You get on your bike and find that old lady what were in here just now and you don't let her out of your sight.
Don't you let her know what you're up to, mind.

It's causing problems.’
‘Talk about Mysterious Ways,’ he grinned.
‘I was wondering when I was going to be let free to do the work of the Lord.’

She looked at each of the women in turn.
‘Or anyone else's.’
‘I don't know what you mean,’ Mrs Doran said stiffly.

‘What is it, Peggy?’ asked David.
Something in her face, in her eyes, in the clenched line of her jaw, had made him hurry out of the tent after her.
‘I think I know who did it,’ she said miserably.

Claire, Annabel and I are supposed to help distribute the food, and let me tell you, at some of these do's it's like feeding a pack of hounds.
These foreigners are so greedy there's never anything left over for supper.
I don't know why Ma and Father make us come.

I sat on the gallery floor and watched through the balusters.
When those silly women went to the downstairs powder room, I saw them go.
I know what they do in there.

‘Why top of the list?’ asked Bob.
‘Because in a domestic murder the husband or wife is always the obvious suspect.
You'll know why if you ever marry.’

‘What do you sound Like, girl?’ said Mrs Cornforth.
‘One of those books you read.’
‘There was one thing I remembered when the foreign gentleman was asking questions,’ said Mary eagerly.

‘He was ever so gentle and nice, but sort of piercing — went right through you —’
‘That's enough of that, my girl!’
‘— well anyway, I remembered the last time she was here this Mrs Heatherington-Scott made a set at Sir Harry Destry, like Thomas said, and — well, we all know what happened that time, don't we?

‘He got very worried and immediately sent for one of the consultants from the hospital.’
‘I should think so…’ murmured Henry.
‘And the consultant wanted to know what she'd had to eat, of course…’

‘The lady on the host's right first, and then the one on his left.
My sister was served after them, I think, and then Miss Amy and Mrs Iverson.’
‘That would have meant,’ said the inspector alertly, ‘that anyone who knew where you were all sitting would have been able work out who would get which plate in the pile.’

Detective Inspector Milsom leaned forward, his notebook prominent.
‘Tell me…’
‘Now I know what else it was Dr Iverson did when he went through to see to the claret before dinner.’

This noticeboard had already played a significant part in my life: nearly thirty years before then it had displayed the result of my own first degree (second-class honours); a few years later had come the perfunctory notice saying my doctoral thesis had been accepted by the college; and shortly after that an even briefer note to the effect that I had joined the teaching staff.
Then, for a quarter of a century, I displayed notices there myself: announcing seminars or little trips to galleries, requesting the return of books and so on.
At the start of every summer term for goodness knows how long, my name had appeared five times on the new lecture list.

I had gone for coffee in the student room in order to avoid my colleagues.
However, my presence was clearly unsettling its regular inhabitants so I decided it was time to make a move — and time to confront Charles Howard.
I remember how leaden-footed I felt, climbing the two flights of stairs to Charles's office.

Four weeks into the term, another little notice appeared on the noticeboard.
‘Paul Spence has kindly agreed to give a few revision classes on seventeenth- and eighteenth-century architecture to final-year BA students: Tuesday…’
‘Do you know what they are going to be about?’

I'm sorry, Carla, I really don't.’
This time I decided to have my coffee in a little cafe not far from SIS.
I can still remember how good that coffee tasted, and how different it tasted from the common-room coffee I was used to.

‘Yes, but how many of these wonderfully high-paid jobs have you been offered over the past eighteen months?’
‘There's no need to rub it in.
You don't know how difficult it is.’

‘No, I'm not saying that at all.
You're perfectly capable of teaching; it's just that you've now got this thing about it.’
‘I remember when you first started at SIS.

Berkeley School had taken on a little more than they had bargained for.
The nearly half a year between my interview and my starting there passed without incident.
Truth be told, I can't really remember what I did do in those six months.

It's not like it used to be.
No matter how talented you are, at your age employers just aren't going to want to know.’
‘I was unemployed for nearly two years before I came  here, I do know what it's like.

I've been difficult material to work with, haven't I?’
He smiled.
‘I reckon I know how Leonardo da Vinci must have felt.’

I went out to the theatre and the opera a lot, and when I had some time off, I was usually able to get away somewhere.
In times past, I had tried to get across to the continent as much as possible, but now, while other people were going abroad for the first time because of all the cheap travel around, I was (without intending to be anti-social) doing exactly the opposite and taking a look around the British Isles.
All this did, of course, cost money, but  if you've had even a comparatively small amount of that and then lost it, you do tend to realize how transient the whole thing is and not worry so much about getting it back again.

However, although unemployment was starting to come down, especially in the south-east where I was living, it was still generally pretty high.
I had two additional problems: my age and getting a reference from someone.
I didn't want to risk Mrs Long, and Mrs Travers knew where I had moved on to, so giving her name could cause problems as well .

This time it was just a computer error they thought — apparently a fairly common occurrence when there's been some form of disruption to a claim.
Unfortunately, a strike was also affecting things.
They would of course let me know what was going on as soon as possible.

She took hold of it and put it down on the floor.
Then she looked me in the eye and smiled.
‘You seem to think you know what you're doing,’ she said.

‘Yes.
Sorry, I'm not explaining myself very well, am I?’
‘It's all right, I know what you're saying.

‘What's the problem?’ she asked.
‘Look, you've got to get back inside the system somehow.’
‘I know what it's like in there and I'm not sure it's a place I want to be.’

And I drew a lot of strength from that.
Up in London, I started to sort out various logistical problems.
It was a matter of discovering which day centres offered what services — where I could go, for example, to have a shower or clean my clothes, or maybe have a cheap meal.

I have given a great deal of thought as to how much I should actually tell you about this period and what just to leave to your imagination.
One obvious thing to do would have been to write about the facilities available to homeless people (or the chronic lack of them in key areas like medical help); however, I have decided against doing that.
For one thing, the criticism could easily rebound on the people who run these places, when in most cases they know how bad things are themselves but they can't do much about it.

I am also very aware that all this is relative.
For one thing, I was extremely lucky in that the winter during which I was homeless was apparently the mildest this country has had for twenty years (though it was quite cold enough for me) and that was by no means the only remarkable piece of good fortune that I had.
In addition, when I look at the plight of the millions of people who've been made homeless recently because of flooding in other parts of the world, it does make me realize how lucky we are as a society that homelessness is still on a much smaller scale here than it is in some countries.

I was, however, sure about one thing: I didn't want to have to take that flat.
‘You know, Dorothy, you and I have one thing  in common,’ I remember saying to myself in a Dutch accent, ‘we both only got as far as Harwich.’
I don't know how many times I'd done the Harwich-to-London run, but the journey seemed different that day — like a well-known view captured in a freshly painted picture.

I would have to live on cheap or free food, so what I really needed to do was to go and see some nuns.
The train arrived in London.
Even though I knew what I had to do, once I got outside Liverpool Street station, I just wandered off aimlessly.

She laughed.
‘This sure beats the boring old wedding breakfast,’ she said.
‘You know what you're really lucky to be missing?

While I was sitting waiting for Jenny, a number of well-dressed women of about my age filed past me, some of them evidently wearied by their afternoon of serious picture-watching.
‘That was how I was once,’ I mused to myself.
‘I wonder what really separates us now?’

‘I rang that night shelter you were at this morning  and the girl I spoke to told me you were on your way.
I got some phone numbers out of the Salvation Army yesterday.
They seemed really nice, you know, I don't know why you're so much against them.’

‘By the way,’ he warned me.
‘Kath was going a bit mental yesterday.
She might have quietened down a bit by now, but you know what she's like.’

She was crying.
‘There you are!
Honestly, girl, if you only knew where I'd been to try and find you!’

We gave each other a long hug.
By now, I was crying even worse than she was.
‘I'm sorry, Kath, I didn't know what I was doing.

‘We'll take you as we find you.’
‘Another thing is I work odd hours, which means I'm up and about at funny times of the day.
I'd try not to disturb anyone but you know what it's like, you can —,

Jenny poured forth a stream of ‘brilliants’’ and said she was going to drive down to Harwich that evening.
I managed to dissuade her from that and we settled on lunch together the following day.
Kathleen and I then took the next train back to Harwich and when we arrived, it seemed like half the port wanted to know what had happened.

‘There are a lot more youngsters with the problem than I thought there were.
They keep getting these ridiculous benefit cuts as well, which just defeat me actually.’
‘You know why I think they do it?

While the inclination may vary from a modest rise to a mountainside, there are a few golden rules you can follow.
When Pauline and Chris Lloyd of Dudley moved house then took on a new garden with a 1 in 3 slope.
They didn't know where they were going to start.

Oh, the bliss of it!
No more mowing and everything else.
Now I know what law-maintenance gardening is — fantastic!

Now I know what law-maintenance gardening is — fantastic!
Mrs Jean Wilson, Sheffield
Gooseberries shape upI would like to let the lady looking for standard gooseberry plants (Question Time, June) know how I obtained mine.

The arbour will play host to Vitis coignetiae , the crimson glory vineHibiscus syriacus ‘Woodbridge’ will add colour to the borders
TV Special
Cope with a slopeA sloping garden needn't be an uphill struggle, as Pippa Greenwood discovered when she lent a hand to the Lloyds on cameraWhen I first met Chris and Pauline Lloyd to discuss their garden and take a look at its one-in-three slope, I was filled with a mixture of admiration for them, and horror at the task ahead.

These books are extremely useful: Encyclopaedia of Garden Plants and Flowers (Reader's Digest £24.95), RHS Gardeners' Encyclopaedia of Plants and Flowers (Dorling Kindersley £27.50), Perennial Garden Plants by Graham Stuart Thomas (Dent £19).
Ace of spades for back back sufferersAges ago I saw on television someone using a special space with a lever action behind it, to help people with bad backs to be able to dig the garden.
Do you know what it is, and where I can get one?

You can buy packets of it by mail order from HDRA Sales Ltd Tel: 0203–303517 Treat caterpillars before they treat themselves to your fruit and vegetablesRosa glauca has handsome foliage, pretty single flowers and good red hipsStriped like a python, the snakebark maple Acer pensylvanicum Occasionally birds disturb mulches while looking for food
Spot the mineral deficiencyThe older leaves on my potato plants are distinctly yellowing, with brown spots and marking too.
Do you know what this could be?

Of course, unless the pilot is aware that the glider is stalled, he is bound to respond instinctively at first , applying full aileron and rudder to try to stop the rapid wing-drop and pulling right back to try to stop the nose dropping.
If the pilot is aware that the glider is stalled, applying the opposite rudder at the same time as moving forwards on the stick should result in some reduction in the yawing movement towards the dropping wing, and therefore must be a good thing.
In my experience, the only occasions when I have stalled unexpectedly and known what was happening at the time, have been in very fierce stubble fires and dust devils.

Certainly, an emergency on the first flight after a long lay off provides the potential for an incident.
If you are out of practice, why not take a ride or two with an instructor and ask him to criticise your flying?
This is a very quick way to get your hand in and learn what you need to practise.

Usually they really believe this and do not accept that they have made a mistake.
This is a dangerous way of thinking.
You need to know how consistently and how accurately you can land; be honest with yourself and accept your limitations.

Explore the handling in steep turns
Time is always well spent when practising steep turns: not the classroom type where you pick up more speed and then go into the turn, but the sort you might use for thermalling.
If you are going to fly your glider efficiently while turning steeply in thermals with other gliders, you need to know how it will behave at the stall.

Various kinds of IUD are used in Britain.
Most are wound with copper: eg the Copper-7, Copper-T, Novagard, Nova-T and Multi-load Copper 250; one is simply plastic; eg the Lippes Loop.
It is sensible to know which type you have.

This will depend on the parents' working hours, but it can be a long day, possibly 8.00 a.m. to 6.00 p.mm., or even longer.
What do I need to discuss with the parents when taking on a child?
You should make sure you know where the parents can be contacted, and that they have given you all the information you are likely to need about the child.

NHS Breast Screening — The Facts 
Although routine screening is available for certain groups of women it is still important for your to maintain an awareness of your own health.
You should know what is normal for you and consult your GP if any changes occur which concern you.

Your Occupational Therapist will have written to the Environmental Health Officer to support your application and you will have had an initial test of resources.
The application forms should be submitted together with copies of the plans, building and planning approval and copies of the estimate.
You should also by now know how you are going to find your part of the cost.

If you have applied to the Social Services to help with funding you must be sure that you have their written approval too before work starts.
What happens when the work starts?
You will be asked to let the Environmental Health Officer and the Occupational Therapist know when the work starts.

You will be asked to let the Environmental Health Officer and the Occupational Therapist know when the work starts.
They may wish to visit during the building stages.
You must also let them know when the work is complete.

As ‘social dirt’ they become an affront to purity and possess the danger of the contagious and impure (Douglas 1966), requiring their removal from the public vision.
As yet there is no other body to undertake this task, and even tentative moves to remove the problem from the cell block and into the detoxification centre foundered in the entrepreneurial 1980s; for there is little immediate profit to be made from reclamation of this kind of scrap material (although the long-term value of a humanitarian return might be thought to be well worth pursuing in a civilized society!).
The argument is therefore not about police control or a utopia without controls, but to explore why some cultural behaviour has  a history of police action and to discover where that behaviour fits into police ideology.

It can be no accident that the opinion of the police officer is now sought on matters which once would have remained the province of the archbishop and his clergy.
The immediate result is that alongside a few major clerics such as Runcie and Jenkins, we find that Stalker, Sampson, Anderton, Alderson, Newman, Imbert, Dear, Oxford, and Hermon are national personalities, while a second division of chief officers regularly proclaim on a range of subjects which at other times would lie outside the province of the police.
Yet Robert Reiner (1989), writing on the collective culture of chief constables, is the first to explore their extraordinary place in modern society, simply because as an élite among the powerful in society they have had little need to reveal how they operate, link together, or reveal what structures of significance guide their actions.

it is essentially a nomadic principle, remaining deeply resented and problematic to most dominant, sedentary political systems and their law enforcers.
Concepts of social movement are therefore synonymous with problems of social change, for they are antagonistic to conservative beliefs; and this gives a further insight into why the idea of social research is antithetical to police thought and has seditious connotations for an institution in which metaphors of stasis are of paramount importance.
It also reveals why movement becomes problematic for ‘real polises’, for it defeats a belief in a fixed and bounded world.

Typically stereotyped as being ‘absent-minded’ cartoon types, intellectuals and academics are considered to inhabit ivory towers and need protection in their naïvety.
Mythological stories about them suggest they are necessarily seen in this simplistic way to reaffirm to ‘real polises’ that it is they who are the true inhabitants of the pragmatic world of conflict and action.
One story of how a local university academic had come into the police station to report his car missing, because he had forgotten where he had parked it, was repeated with relish; while another which I told on my return from university satisfied these deeply held views of the ‘intellectual's’ practical ineptitude:

Come and have a Slow Comfortable Screw Against the Wall with an ageing deviant.
It's a cocktail, dear.’
‘I know what a slow comfortable screw is, Francis,’ said Jay in her best Mae West, ‘but I ain't never done it against a wall.’

No words, just the blissful caress of cool cotton sheets as they slid into bed, Jay's body glowing with desire.
And Lucy's silky warm skin all along her, arms wrapped round each other, so close that nothing could come between.
So close that Jay didn't know where she ended and Lucy began.

‘Now?’ said Lucy.
‘Yeah, now,’ said Jay, grinning.
‘You didn't know how hard I can work, did you?

There was a shy tense hug and lip brush of a kiss at the door.
Enough to have Jay fly home on the wings of Peter Pan and sleep like an angel.
Now she knew where Lucy lived and Lucy knew how she felt.

‘I suppose.
Well, you're not having my photo.
I know what I'm giving you,’ Lucy smiled on her secret.

‘I have to change.’
‘Don't worry, darling!
If she doesn't know what a good thing you are, I feel sorry for her.

We drink coffee.
I recall that there is a meeting this afternoon to discuss the paper we wrote.
I'm being allowed onto her ecologically correct territory, and no one there will know how we kissed and almost, as good as, made love…but I will and she will.

Yes!
You were!’
Jay said: ‘I don't know what I'm doing, it's never been this way before, can't go on anything else, but this time I'm not going to fuck up.’

I felt trivialised.’
‘Never feel that,’ said Lucy, ‘Oh, God, I feel like I'm sixteen again.
Do you know what I've missed?’

Let's drink a bottle of champagne…’
Well, I kinda knew you'd say that, but had forgotten the unique thrill of the way only you can say things.
I don't know why we drink so much and come up smelling of roses.

Well, I kinda knew you'd say that, but had forgotten the unique thrill of the way only you can say things.
I don't know why we drink so much and come up smelling of roses.
I don't know why we drink so much.

I don't know why we drink so much and come up smelling of roses.
I don't know why we drink so much.
I don't know why we drink.

I don't know why we drink so much.
I don't know why we drink.
I don't know why we…the hell I don't!

Jay brought Dionne honeycomb cell shaped soap and an oil and sand picture with its ever-changing magic.
Treasure to the treasured.
At least she and Dionne knew how precious they were to each other.

She's OK.
I wouldn't choose her, but then I'm not exactly the legend of taste and discretion.’
Sometimes, like now, she wondered if Francis knew what it was be in love.

Oh, God, thought Jay, I can't bear it.
Maybe for ten years would be better than no.
And she knew how urgent and fervent their kisses had been, how close Lucy had been to abandoning whatever it was that held her back, made her withhold her beautiful body.

‘Christ,’ she said, ‘What a pair.
At least we can laugh.
I don't know why I'm laughing.’

‘Go ahead,’ said Jay, enjoying this objective discussion where she could focus entirely on the delirium and dilemma of Lucy.
‘Right.
You know when you go on a swing when  you're a child — one of those municipal swings.

But there came a point when beautiful stories and analogies wore thin.
Usually at a sleepless three a.m.
Jay had always said you know who you are at three a.m.

Lucy who possibly hadn't given Jay a thought in four weeks; she certainly hadn't woken with Jay's face in her mind, slept with a dream of Jay in her arms.
Or had she?
Did she even know what Jay felt?

‘Take your clothes off and get into bed,’ said Jay, a wave of calm sweeping over her.
‘We don't have to do a thing you don't want.
But I know what I want.

‘We don't have to do a thing you don't want.
But I know what I want.
I think I know what you want.

And I do not give you permission to  fling yourself at her feet, grab her hands and weep into her palms.
So well-behaved was Jay that Lucy relaxed.
Jay couldn't remember why it had been so important to see her.

‘Darling, I don't even understand ME!
No one ever understands anyone, dear.
I don't know why you bother.

A mile or so along the sand, she sat on a rock, looking at the grey/indigo streak of Italian coastline.
The sun coaxed her body to stretch idly as a cat; she tanned easily, adored white heat and turquoise sea.
Always wondered what brought her back to the miseries of soggy grey England, the endless winters.

Eyes glitter with a memory of the chill snowfields that once claimed her.
Her civilised paw curves round a glass.
And they stare, can't stop, they know what is said of the claws, the biting words from her jaws, and a shiver tightens the pores of their hairless flesh.

She reached for her notebook and cigarettes and played the words around, wielded their texture and richness to sculpt a poem to her joy.
A poem for her eyes only, a poem she liked.
There would be no more In Love redemption, thought Jay, in fact all she knew was that she didn't know what Love was.

You will have to wear an identifying red or white belt either in place of your normal grade belt or in addition to it.
The Japanese word for red is aka , and for  white,shiro .
Remember which is which by bearing in mind that aka, like red, has three letters while shiro, like white, has five.

Referees' signals
Referees use various signals and japanese phrases to express their judgement.
Make sure that you know what these are and what they mean.

In this case, I saw her caught with classic techniques — but none of them scored.
A senior international referee of my acquaintance was standing nearby and confirmed my opinion.
I don't know how the problem can be circumvented, except by being so much better than your opponent that even the most biased referee is forced to acknowledge your scores.

Alternatively, wait until the opponent's technique has missed and is being withdrawn.
This is also a ‘dead time’ during which you can profitably respond.
You can sometimes discover what responses the opponent is likely to make it you make a sudden move towards him.

You can sometimes discover what responses the opponent is likely to make it you make a sudden move towards him.
He will either come forwards to meet you, ‘dig in’ and prepare to punch, or back off.
It is useful to know which is the likely response to your committed attack and that is one way of finding out.

The purpose of this chapter is to help you to deal with any injuries which you may pick up, so that they affect your fitness as little as possible.
Bruises
This class of injury is the most common of all and we all know what a bruise is and how it is caused.

Also, bear in mind that traces of drugs remain in the system and can be detected for some time after you have stopped taking them.
I would therefore advise against taking any kind of drugs, not just because it is unsporting, or because of the threat of severe penalties on discovery, but also because of the adverse effects any drug regime has on the mind and body.
It is necessary to know when you have been hurt, if you are to avoid making the injury worse.

‘She thought you would be working.
There is the timber to pay —‘There is nobody working from here to Killin.
Do you know what they have done there?

Cameron's voice dried up their excitement like a dose of paregoric.
‘Does MacLaggan want them to charge against the muskets, and make a Culloden in Strath Tummel?
Does he know what has happened in Tranent?,

His father was more than six foot and could toss the caber further than any man in Bunarkaig.
He could have laid in wait for the soldiers and split their heads and —‘Fight?
Some of us knew what that meant by then.

He finished, face raised and eyes closed, and at once gave out the final psalm.
Mr Menzies had enunciated ‘them that sing’ with noticeable pleasure in the resonant properties of the words.
Looking at his glistening face, his cheeks and forehead like apple-skins, Cameron wondered what fired him most at this moment — self-satisfaction? or a true pleasure in poetic language?

We had better join them.’
She shook his hand.
‘Donald — if you go straight there, folk will know where you have been.’

They might have become becalmed there as their heads ballooned with the drink but the Duke told his piper to rouse their feet with a steady march, ‘Murdo Mackenzie of Torridon’, and they headed off downstream towards Grandtully past the standing stone, the quiet watcher, while damp black shadow massed in the river-channel as though the night came from there.
on the far bank Cameron had outstripped them, his army moving steadily down the strath, winning signatures at the house of Cluny, at Clochfoldich and Pitnacree, by the solid slow avalanche of their numbers, massing quietly round each house, hammering three times on each door.
By this time every gentleman knew what was expected of him: Cameron never dismounted, he leaned from the saddle and passed the paper down to the angry, helpless proprietor and took it back signed.

‘Hired murderers — in it for the blood money.
Flemyng of Moness is no better, you know, no better at all.
You know where his father got his money?

But she kept the thought to herself.
For a mile or two nothing more was said.
They knew when they were opposite Pitcaple, and then Cluny, by the barking of the dogs and the rattle of their chains.

We must keep up the pressure on the lairds, the stream of meetings, so that we are all welded together, we feel our accumulated powers, day in day out.
And the lairds believe that that is all.
Under the cover of the hubbub we must organize the families, until each listed man knows where he will go, and who will feed him, when the platoon comes to march him off.

For how are we to bring in the corn harvest with all those strong hands and strong arms gone?
You will manage — oh yes — although you have no servants to feed your animals or cook your meat for you — you will manage , although you are a year married with a wee child learning to walk, and no wet-nurse to mind it for you while you milk the beasts — and no young husband to thatch your house above your head.
The lords in parliament, and in the courthouse and the castle, they do not know how we live — they know nothing about us, except that we will die for them, to protect their forts in India and in Scotland ’— his voice sharpened suddenly, his arm swung round and pointed north and a gust of response rose out of the crowd —‘we have always been good at that, their demands can never be satisfied, regiments for the colonies, indentured servants and labourers for the plantations, they have scoured Scotland like a killing wind and the men have been whirled away in the blast of it.

‘I work here but I don't belong here.’
Am I any different, Cameron was wondering to himself, and Byers, sensing the thought, grew more heated.
‘Do you know what it's like when people turn away before you've finished speaking?

A few dark tracks criss-crossed the grey dew.
Black cattle snuffed and chewed.
Little knots of people stood about eyeing each other with an air of wondering why they had come at all.

The old man will never be good for much now.’
‘You could work it and live here, Don — why are you angry?’
‘You know why — I am the man of that house since my father…

‘Sheep and goats now, eh?’ said Iain in his tight-lipped way.
‘All right, then — Alastair can go up through the Glen of the Birks and use the old byre below Urlar.
The Urlar folk will neither help nor hinder — you know how close they are.’

At night there was frost.
In the morning white rime coated the sill of the barred window-space.
It would be better, it might even be bearable, if only he knew what had become of James.

Could he be sure they had emptied it of its last sheet?
He tried to visualize its brown wooden bottom — he could not — there must still have been at least one sheet there.
Would he ever know which friends and fellows he had delivered over to the government in that one fatally careless moment?

(A third brother, Lawrence, was too young to enlist).
They had both served in the armed forces, and Nathan had been disabled as a result.
They knew what was threatening.

But there also seems to be a more personal element, too.
In The Favourite Game he turns on those who produce such work in a wholly negative way.
Of Breavman (his alter ego) he states, ‘He didn't know why he hated the careful diagrams and coloured plates.

It is difficult to avoid the feeling that this, one of his first university essays, is purely subjective.
He is that eight-year-old boy.
He knows how it feels to lose a father at a tender age.

It was a just over a week since she had first set foot on the Dorset coast path.
Each night she spoke to a waiter to order a meal; each morning she asked for boiled rather than scrambled eggs for breakfast.
Otherwise she could not remember when she had last spoken to anyone.

Anyway, no one will notice.’
That always made her reach, in agitation, for something else, so that when they finally set off she was already exhausted and Paul was angry and full of contempt.
‘You know how it is,’ he would say to their hosts, on the pretext of apologising for arriving late, ‘She couldn't find a thing to wear.

No eight o two.
I'd have taken my overcoat if I'd known.
You know how damp it was this morning.

From time to time she stopped to laugh.
Finally, still shaking, she cut the photos apart and clipped one to each letter.
These men would know how she really looked.

‘Not a lot.
Watching television as usual.
You know how I am on Fridays.

No, I couldn't see what caused it.
Yes, my left arm was trapped.
No, I don't know how long.

She decided to sleep on the sofa so as not to miss anything.
No one had mentioned how fast the trains were going: nor the precise time of impact, not down to the minute.
She wanted to hear interviews with other survivors and to know what the emergency services had to say — the fire fighters who rushed to the scene, the doctors who performed the operations.

In the foreground, blue water tumbled beside the steps into rectangular pools.
Still the man did not look up.
Susan wondered how she would feel if he did; or if she touched him or let him know in some other way that she was there?

The yellow steps rose in steep flights but now it was clear that when she reached the top she would also be at the bottom, starting out.
The blue water which tumbled down formal cascades fell through several levels but the lowest level fed into the highest.
Susan did not know how she felt about this until she saw that he had painted himself and herself half-way up or half-way down, looking up or down at their reflections in the water.

Make sure managers and supervisors are familiar with the policy and procedures, and make sure too that they set a good example to the staff they supervise.
•
Make sure staff know what is expected of them — a responsible attitude towards drinking, standards of work performance and so on.

The same point can be made in a slightly different way.
Call our blind super-scientist ‘BS’ and an ordinary sighted subject ‘V’.
BS is supposed to have complete scientific knowledge of V and his physical environment when V sees: yet BS does not know what it is like for V to see, what colours look like, etcetera.

Because BS knows all the facts about the brain state, and the experience just is the brain state, then what the experience is like must be something other than a fact about the experience.
The argument transposes, however.
Since merely knowing the brain state does not reveal what the experience is like, and since what the experience is like , if it is a reality at all(which Tye does not dispute), must be a fact about the experience (or a feature or aspect of the experience, which will do just as well), it follows that the experience is not a brain state.

Experiences, they argued, are identical with brain states; but when someone is conscious of his experiences he is not conscious of his brain as such: it takes modern science to tell us that consciousness is a state of the brain.
They therefore concluded that in consciousness itself we are aware of the brain topic-neutrally ; that is, not as the brain, but in some way that is neutral about the nature of the object of our consciousness.
Thus, one might characterize one's grasp on the experience of seeming to see a red object as something is going on in me (I don't know what it is) which is like what goes on when a red object is acting on my eyes ; or…like what goes on in me to make me behave in a red-object-appropriate way .

James Russell
'TIS wit, ‘In the beginning was the Word.’
I pause, to wonder what is here inferred.

How are we going to understand this ‘prior capacity’ on the mental-sentence view?
There is only one way: in terms of symbolic representations of the predicates, as in ‘X is a chair and only if it is a portable seat for one person’.
This means that a child acquiring language who does not yet know what chair means but will acquire the knowledge must already have represented in his ‘language of thought’ a predicate of the kind ‘is a portable seat for one’.

It enables the scientist to say something about the internal experiences of others without the tedium of having to ask the subjects themselves.
The central consideration of this chapter is the validity of these claims and their significance for our understanding of the mind-body relationship.
We know what you're thinking

It is clearly under voluntary control: we can decide who to listen to in a crowded room and who to shut out.
And it is extremely sophisticated: we can pick out our chosen voice from an overlapping background of very similar sounds.
From William James at the end of the last century to the present day, psychologists have speculated and experimented to discover how this is done.

The response to this is that intentionality and consciousness are emergent properties of physical systems.
Neurons do not individually have the property of consciousness, consciousness emerges when a large number of neurons are interacting in the right kind of way; just as speed is a property not of any single component of a car, but an emergent property of the whole system  when it is operating in an appropriate way.
Of course, nobody as yet knows how intentionality — the property that mental phenomena have of being about something other than themselves — or consciousness emerge from the operations of the brain.

The framework for the investigation of ‘sensory coding’ was established in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, when  the business of explaining perception was transformed into the more specific project of correlating the physical properties of perceived objects and events with patterns of activity in the nervous system and the latter with the subjective properties of the experience:
It was early appreciated that, apart from, say, minor variations in the speed of conduction, the impulses in all nerve fibres have essentially identical characteristics.
This was explicitly recognized by the early twentieth century physiologists who saw their fundamental task as that of discovering how the infinite variety of the perceived world could be reflected in, or reconstructed in, the rather monotonous nervous system.

It is an explicit sense of continuing self which includes a sense of responsibility over time (‘1 did that’) and, beneath this, a deep sense of psychological continuity (‘I remember having that experience’, ‘I was there then’).
Sensations and memories converge to create a continuing, if interrupted, sense of a coherent self.
This sense of self is quite robust: when we wake up, we not only remember what we know, but also who we are.

But I'll give it a try.
Thanks.’
‘Let me know how you get along.’

Do you see?’
‘I see that you're a hell of a lot more cheerful.’
‘And do you know what I'd like to do?’

‘Well, someone got up and said I couldn't propose throwing redcoats out of Belfast because there weren't any nowadays.
I said I was a historian.
And Niall got up and said, music to my ears, that Erin's soil wasn't green either but we all knew what it meant…

‘Sorry.’
She sits.
‘Oh do go on,’ Harriet hovers above, laughing, ‘it's not as if we didn't all know how virtuous you feel.’

I…
I…
People like Niall, like Michael Morrissey, who do know what it is like to be poor and shat on, the bottom of the whole U.K. heap, they know I'm nothing when they set eyes on me.

‘I think your blood runs a bit cold,’ he said, helping himself to a bit of cruelty.
‘You are the one who is married,’ she said, ‘not me.
I know what that means.

‘You are the one who is married,’ she said, ‘not me.
I know what that means.
I know what married people look like.’

As her parting shot she told me never to phone her at this time of the night again.
but then her anger seemed to have woken her and she continued, ‘I know you went to a lot of trouble over the meal, but my brother's sexual proclivities aren't any of your business, or mine either.’
‘Bitch,’ I screamed down the phone at her then, remembering how much they like dogs here, I shouted in English, ‘Whore!

Without realizing it he had let me know that using French words, however few and halting, has a bewitching effect upon everything in London, animate and inanimate alike.
I'd woken up the next morning at Aisha's place, not convinced that I was really in London: her flat was like any flat at home with the same smell, the same coloured ottomans and rugs, the same pictures on the walls, the brass tray in the middle of the room, and the loud shrieks and wails of her two children puncturing the air.
However, this sensation evaporated as soon as I looked out of the window, when I realized how imprisoned I was by my ignorance, which Aisha seized upon, exploiting the fact that I didn't know how to flush the toilet, work the shower, turn on the oven or boil the electric kettle to make tea, and that I couldn't understand what her older child or her next-door neighbour said.

Annie, now in her thirties, talks about what being working class means in terms of self-image and worth.
Of how there are no accurate contemporary representations of her life, only this heritage stuff about happy agricultural labourers with straws in their mouths, or chirpy cockneys eating winkles.
She says she needs to gather up, in her post-modern skirt, all the creative, affirmative, intellectual parts of her childhood; she needs to know how her folk survived, and when she looks for them in England, on TV, at the theatre, in art galleries, in advertising, they're invisible.

But most of all he is anxious about the children of friends and comrades.
He wants photographs of them, information, he wants them to be well.
He wants to know where they are living and what they are thinking.

We've just got settled in this place.
What the bloody hell did you go an' marry me for if you wanted to go to London?
You don't know what the hell you're on about, you've no idea at all.

Last but not least, Keith is an historian who has frequently visited Mexico and it doesn't faze him that I, as a Mexican, should come to his country to write about its artists.
He's in favour of it, perhaps even likes it, and approves of the Third World rather as some of the English also evince my approval, Malcolm Lowry and Graham Greene among them.
And Keith is one of the few Englishmen I know who really likes Spencer, the rest dismiss him as representative of an imperial, conservative, rural English idyll.

It was as if he were memorizing her life so he could sail to New York, adopt a different accent, and claim to be a long lost relative due a piece of her fortune which hadn't been considerable and might all be gone now.
Sometimes she caught him looking at her, but he never really kissed her and the vagueness of his attentions made her anxious and say bitter things she didn't mean.
She didn't know what he wanted from her.

The landlady stared at her in an uncomfortable silence.
She felt tired and cold from all her walking, her shoes badly worn, and without thinking she asked the landlady if he had left a note for her.
Only afterwards did she realize how foolish her request sounded.

Lately none of these groups have been present in the park, but as it gets warmer they will return.
On a London bus she had heard a driver announce Stoke-Jewington when driving through Islington.
She had heard rhyming slang, she knew what four by twos meant, and she'd once been asked if she could speak with a Jewish accent.

I had the sinking feeling of failure.
Look, I pointed to the site of the former Coney Island house.
Do you know who used to stay there?

Little did they know this was the fellow for whom The Flippity Flop Young Man was written, and I wasn't about to tell them.
Would it have made any difference if I had?
Did he enjoy being a temporarily anonymous spectacle, or did he believe these seamstresses and pipe fitters knew who he was?

‘We are established in many other sports, including the Johnnie Walker Ryder Cup, the RAC Rally, the Silk Cut Derby at Hickstead, the Benson and Hedges Snooker Masters at Wembley, the Volvo European PGA Tour and the British Grand Prix’, explains Delahunty, ‘and although we have been in tennis since 1985 when Stella Artois first commissioned us, I still look at tennis as a growth area.
We maximise sponsor benefits in all media so that they can get their name all over the country.
We feel that, by using experienced broadcast and newspaper trained personnel, we know what both the public — and sponsor — requires’.

The only people who can change the situation are the players themselves.
They always have some excuse, but Russia has far worse facilities than we have and how many players have they got in the top fifty; three men and three women?
One wonders how often our players play in tournaments for if one looks at the tennis results in the daily newspapers one seldom sees the letters G.B. behind the player's name, and if we do, seldom does it appear past the first round.

A player should be a man or a woman, make decisions, think.
If you allow a player to broaden themselves, it helps.
A few players don't even know what is the capital of France when they're in Paris playing the French Open.

But was she trying to confuse the plot by saying: ‘I know that it is impossible for me to win four Grand Slam tournaments this year.’
Some burning sun, black clouds, rain and wind were the backdrop to another highly agreeable fortnight in Paris at just about the perfect time of year.
But tennis players don't seem to know where they are or what the weather is like.

The weights used should be increased once 3 sets of 10 repetitions have been achieved so as to make the weight training progressive.
The routine sheets should be filled in each week or whenever the weight is increased.
After a few sessions you will know which weights to use, but you should make sure that the routine is kept up to date.

However, a machine can only stretch in a few directions and is therefore only of limited value.
Most people use their own bodyweight as a stretching aid, with the number of different ways to stretch being limited only by the imagination.
The most important factor in ‘free stretching’ is that you know when it hurts and how far you can go, making it possible for you to immediately release the stretch should you need to.

Most people use their own bodyweight as a stretching aid, with the number of different ways to stretch being limited only by the imagination.
The most important factor in ‘free stretching’ is that you know when it hurts and how far you can go, making it possible for you to immediately release the stretch should you need to.
Safety is also an important factor when stretching with a partner; he does not know how much pain you are in and he could inadvertently overstretch you.

For details contact The Administrator, 60 Swanley Lane, Swanley, Kent BR8 7JG.
One in the eye for maple scientists
If you want to know how the bird's eye in maple is formed ask a logger.

His hope has been that better use of woodlands will give the trees greater value, and so farmers and landowners will have an economic reason for managing their woods.
John admitted recently that the economic climate has rarely been worse, and woodland owners have no financial rationale for management of this resource.
He is, however, frequently contacted by landowners who want to know how they can make better use of their trees.

There was a saucy additional note from British Customs and Excise, who had opened the package upon arrival, to determine any duties payable.
The note complimented me on my friend's honesty!
I do not know how the customs people work these things out, but I have never paid import duties on these overseas postal purchases.

Admiring lathes
I have nothing but admiration for those hardy woodturners who have put the clock back a few hundred years and are making furniture with their pole lathes, but it has made me more than ever aware that the wood lathe has changed very little over the years.
I have often wondered why it should be such a primitive machine in spite of all its modern gadgets.

The turner still has to hold a great juddering chisel in his hands and relies on a good eye and a steady hand to ensure a true cut.
I have no doubt that dedicated woodturners everywhere would scoff at the idea of engineers' lathes being used for woodturners, but when I think of the various moulds and patterns I have made over the years with comparative ease but which due to their intricacies could only have been made with extreme difficulty on a wood lathe — if at all.
I then wonder why some enterprising manufacturer hasn't made a cheap engineer's lathe as an alternative to the old-fashioned wood lathe.

G. Russell, Keighley
Tilting turners
At the most recent target for the Antipodian Don Quixote, who tilts not at windmills but at woodturners, and not wishing to turn a non-existent battle into a war of attrition, I can only wonder who Mike Darlow will focus his attentions on next!

This was the only medium that showed up well enough against the various colours and patterns of the spalted timber.
At later stages a thick crayon and a large felt tip suited particular areas of marking.
I set about the lump with the Woodcarver and soon discovered what it could and could not do.

Mastering Marquetry
In June the National Marquetry Exhibition culminated in the award of prizes to the best marquetarians in the land.
Nick Gibbs reviews the exhibition and competitions, and wonders how such masterpieces are achieved on wood    

Special attention has been paid to security.
The clock is attached to the table on which it will stand by means of a padlock and plastic covered cable, which is located with the clock and out of sight.
Whilst a prospective burglar might fumbling with the clock and wondering why it won't lift, his movement will have activated the pressure pad which controls an audible alarm giving out 85dbs.

An Architectural Woodworkers carver (below) and a host of tools (above right) from R.A. Salman's Dictionary of Woodworking Tools published by Unwin Hyman
Carving Bearing up to reality
Teddy Bears may not be the most active models, but their nuances of age make reproduction in wood a challenge, as George Brownlee discovered when he carved this award-winning piece.

Trees fell across tracks like dominoes, and barely had services begun to return three days later when a Central Wales line bridge collapsed while being traversed by a DMU.
Four lost their lives.
The end of year deadline for eradication of asbestos-contaminated rolling stock, agreed many years ago between BR and the unions, was quietly and mutually forgotten when it was realised it was a long way from being achieved unless services were decimated.

In contrast, 5 July saw the end of the already very limited service between Stratford and Tottenham Hale via Lea Bridge, a line which may now return to passenger use following electrification at 25kV in 1989.
The image of LSE was enhanced by David Kirby's decision to introduce a new livery unique to LSE.
It was revealed when ‘Essex Express’ unit No 309605 was handed over on completion of refurbishment at Wolverton Works under a £17.5million contract in March.

Rebuilt English electric Class 37 No 37372, now ETH fitted Class 37/4 No 37 4331 Sir Powys/County of Powys stands at Cardiff with 09.50 Swansea to Portsmouth train, 16 February 1988.
The Cardiff Catonbased locomotive was modified in 1986 .
(Opposite below)The first of the Class 47s — or Brush Type 4s as they were known when D1500 appeared in 1962 — still hard at work rom Gateshead depot in 1987. here No 47401, as it is now numbered and carrying the name North Eastern which it both received and lost during the 1980s, nears Greenfield on a Trans-Pennine service, the 17.03 Liverpool to Newcastle on 19 June 1987.

But if Ashton had not made these very distinctive changes in his ports de bras , the seasonal differences would not have been so notable.
The above examples are only a few of those showing how conventional ports de bras can be changed.
A study of Ashton's ways of using them, or of MacMillan's, reveal how unnecessary it is to keep passing the arms through 1st position.

When Diaghilev staged The Sleeping Beauty in London (1921) two of his Auroras were princesses by marriage and ballerinas assolutas by Imperial decree.
They were grand princesses dancing superbly throughout, but never once suggested that they grew from girl to woman by any change of expression or ways of dancing.
Yet if the dances of Vera and Natalia in A Month in the Country and Juliet in Romeo and Juliet are examined it will be discovered how the technical content is so designed that the steps, poses and gestures show how changing circumstances are affecting the individuals.

There are many uses for this turn, particularly when dancers are conversing in ports de bras .
One of the most beautiful is probably that of Odette in the Act II pas de deux of Swan Lake when, overcoming her fear at being captured, she turns her head and deliberately looks into Siegfried's eyes.
A study of how people react in real life when affected by any kind of emotion and mood soon reveals how the movements of the whole body can change.

It is designed to display both dancer and dance to the best advantage from the audience's point of view.
It is a strict discipline upon which to build.
Its exponents are trained to feel how to move with each part of their bodies and to know how their movements must be coordinated to produce one or another step or pose.

BUT the drinker's struggle is far from over…
— why is beer 30p a pint cheaper in Manchester than in London?
do you know what goes into your pint?

More historical information on the breweries has been added and the tasting panels have once more been out and about finalising their tasting notes.
If you're a survivor of the Red Revolution — or was it a failed coup?— one feature you'll want to read is Brian Glover's nostalgic glance back at those dreadful keg beers.
Do you remember who claimed ‘It's what your right arm's for’?

The Food Advisory Committee's latest review of labelling legislation has recommended that all alcoholic drinks should be subject to the same legislation that governs all other foodstuffs.
The Government is believed to be willing to accept the recommendation.
If you go into a pub today and buy a pint of beer, a coke, a low alcohol lager and a packet of crisps, you have a right to know what is in all those products except the beer.

If you go into a pub today and buy a pint of beer, a coke, a low alcohol lager and a packet of crisps, you have a right to know what is in all those products except the beer.
‘That is nonsense,’ says CAMRA's Campaigns Manager Stephen Cox.
‘A more health conscious consumer wants to know what he is drinking.’

What is needed is an active campaign to change the law to allow children, accompanied by a responsible adult, into a public house, or certain specified rooms within that public house, at specified times of the day, the rooms and times being agreed by the licensing justices following application from the licensee.
The way things are moving, my daughters will be grown up with families of their own before any change occurs.
And who knows how many years will then have passed since George Orwell wrote about his ideal pub?

In fact, if I can time my travel to be in a place when a beer festival is on, I attend it.
But I did not go to the Great British Beer Festival.
I don't know how many breweries or pubs were knocked down during the redevelopment of Docklands.

I'M still awaiting news about the eventual buyer of Showerings, the cider company put on the market by owner Allied.
Hereford cider producers Bulmers had been rumoured to be considering a bid but in the end have apparently not tendered an offer, fearing a referral by the Office of Fair Trading to the Monopolies Commission.
We should shortly know who the new owners of Showerings are and what plans they have for the company.

A climber jumps in his car, burns precious fossil fuels on a stretch of tarmac that has eaten acres of countryside to arrive at an undeveloped crag.
He raps down his prospective lines using webbing and rope made from non-renewable resources and starts stripping vegetation from the cracks and ledges on the route.
He doesn't know what species of flora are being removed, isn't sure that there are no birds being disturbed.

The bold gesture is often the one that brings success, but on this occasion our lazy decision to eat and try to sleep was justified.
Soon the evening storm was crashing about us, the whole wall a waterfall, cascading like a curtain across the mouth of the Fish, just beyond our feet.
It was an apt time for the old dilemma of trying to forget where you were (while being excited by the position) and trying not to think about the uncertainties of the morrow (while looking forward to them).

Its atmosphere at those times is utterly special.
The trolled and gargoyled buttresses wheel around you through rifts in the cloud; they stretch, soar, disappear, solidify again suddenly out of the vapour then drift impossibly far up into the mist until your senses reel at the evanescent dynamism of the scene.
The only climber I know who goes there regularly at times like this is that perverse little bugger Joe Brown, who is clearly captivated by the magic of the place, though he'd never let you know as much in words.

There's a portrait of him in Llanberis vicarage in which he looks as irrepressible and intelligent as this action implies.
Look at the Eastern Terrace without a climber's eye and the rocks pile up around it.
Who knows how hard they might be along this slash through the fiercest mountain crag in Wales?

His wife Mable scolded him out of the house on a bright May Saturday afternoon in the late 1920s.
In his chagrin he wandered up on to Moel Siabod above his home, where a clump of purple flowers amongst the grey rocks of the mountain caught his eye, just as they might that of some solitary wanderer today.
Evan didn't know what they were, determined to find out, and so began one of the great sagas of self-instruction.

To his credit he has avoided giving us familiar images of Everest, Machhapuchhare and the like, and instead has chosen to be more creative in his choice of viewpoints, angles and lighting.
Some shots, particularly the front and rear covers of the book, are quite stunning.
But others are less impressive and I wonder how and why they made it through to the final selection.

As for Scafell, well, how often can you climb there?
How often have you climbed there?
I've forgotten when I was last there.

The downstairs lighting circuit is run under the first-floor floorboards, with cables preferably threaded through holes drilled in the centre of joists, or clipped to the sides of the joists.
To run cable down to light switches or to wall lights, it will usually be necessary to ‘chase’ slots in solid walls, though if you are rewiring a house which was originally  wired in metal conduit, you may be able to use the existing conduit buried in the plaster leading to light switches to feed the cable down.
Chasing solid walls is done with a bolster chisel and club hammer, and it is important to keep the cables vertical so that you know where they are.

The result: Des was airlifted out of the Gulf in mid-May and, on May 29, at Arden Grange International Quarantine Kennels in Albourne, Sussex, Dave saw Des for the first time since March 23.
‘I was both thrilled and relieved to see him again,’ Dave said.
‘When I left Kuwait, I didn't know what was going to happen to Des.

Biggest shock of our day — no dogs allowed into a shop worldrenowned for its dog logo.
Quite farcical.
Uniformed security guard said: ‘Only guide dogs, you know what I mean.

It's the ideal way to socialise your pup
BRUCE FOGLE
If you've been to a puppy party you'll know how much fun it can be to train your pup in a positive and natural way.

Veterinary nurse Tracey Chamberlain, a Rottie rescue helper, said: ‘Some people are so sick.
When the owner had finished beating him, he was advertised in the local paper as ‘a loving dog needing a new home’.
‘His new owners wondered why he wouldn't come out of his kennel.

‘HE KNOWS HE'S DONE WRONG!’
This is what most owners say when confronted by cherished furnishings, door frames or personal items, such as books or the remote control for the TV, that have been torn to shreds by beloved Rover in their absence, or nearly as distressing the evidence of his lack of toilet control.
Their assumption that ‘he knows what he has done wrong’ is based on the fact that Rover is slinking along the floor with its head and tail down looking for all the world like a naughty school boy who's just broken the headmaster's window.

‘When buying a puppy, try and ensure it is well-bred and reared by a breeder who has some aim to produce well-tempered stock.’
Graham emphasised the fact that the breed needs plenty of mental exercise, too, even if it's only basic obedience training.
It is no good you being a couch potato and having a Dobermann, only to wonder why it seems so frustrated with its existence.

Keith Waugh was armed with only the vaguest canine knowledge when he took the first steps along his career path.
Eleven years down that path he now has a far greater appreciation of dogs and the people who handle them professionally.
Keith, 32, is the NCOIC (non-commissioned officer in charge) of the dog squadron at RAF Northolt and as such, has learned what is required to make a special working partnership successful.

At the end of that 12-month period, a recruit qualifies as a Senior Aircraftman or woman (SAC acting corporal), before earning the rank of Substantive Corporal, which is when the recruit is eligible for a specialisation course.
‘My work has helped me appreciate dogs a lot more,’ Keith explained.
‘You learn what they can and can't do and that experience becomes useful as you go on.

Mum's big too but it's really all just fat.
We were a family of nine.
I don't know how Mum managed but we were never without food, although we were short on other things — I never saw a television.

These lovely people were from Holland, on holiday over here.
We had a long journey back to Holland.
I don't know what it was about Holland, whether it was the food, the water or all the chocolates they gave me, but I grew, how I grew.

A pity.
I could have become fond of the bearded man even though he was the clumsiest chap I knew.
I wonder how he drove home.

But they don't cohere, don't add up.
You couldn't find your way round this city any more (and here is a strange thought) than you have got the practical hang of the little fortress prison at Omsk by the end of The House of the Dead .
To compare Raskolnikov's haymarket with Kim's bazaar is to see that Kipling has done all the work so that you don't have to go there to know what it's like at the level of vivid and varied description, whereas Dostoevsky leaves his reader with an impression which hovers between smell and vapour and dream.

And not so Svidrigailov and Raskolnikov, both hyperconscious men, and both (as we shall see) linked by their condition to the city which Peter the Great pondered over and then ordered to be built.
Svidrigailov's answer, when Raskolnikov asks him Shy don't you see a doctor?’ is that he doesn't need to be told he's ill.
It doesn't follow that he knows what the matter is —‘honestly, though, I don't know what's wrong with me,’ he adds.

Others are in search of justice, ‘with a petition to some Minister’.
Others again, like Mr Luzhin, Dunya Raskolnikov's middle-aged suitor, want to make a lot of money: there's a Dick Whittington side to Petersburg.
Speaking for himself, Svidrigailov says he is after the women, which isn't untrue but we know what it's worth.

Napoleon himself had plenty to do, but a Napoleon is a member of a conceptual class of people who are like each other; and likeness, the ‘unseemly likeness’ of The Double , is fraught throughout Dostoevsky.
When Raskolnikov goes to Sonya to declare himself, she implores him to tell her ‘straight out — without examples’.
She doesn't want to know what he's like .

But he still had to find a wife.
And at last, and most imprudently, he married an ambitious tyrant who drove him up the career ladder, and when things began to get too much he set to work on a toy church with pastor, pulpit, congregation, organ and so forth .
But she discovered what he was up to and confiscated the church.

A paper person is a walking theory, and one which may not even believe in itself; and then the paper person will not merely have nobody, he will have no theory to be.
He belongs to a paper society which goes through the motions of life, in the air, notionally.
Many a reader of The Possessed will have smiled at Von Lemke's paper cut-outs — the conductor waving his baton, the bustling railway porter, the hell-fire gesticulating preacher — and at the same time he will have wondered why the microcosmic animated toys feel so supremely right for this novel.

’ Stepan and ‘I’, his young friend, are locked in such mutualities throughout.
‘We’ are both characters inside the provincial-chronicle box, the framed narrative without a frame narrator, and out of this enclosure liberty proceeds.
Stepan reverses the news-from-Peshawar standpoint of the novel by wondering what ‘they’, those powerful officials in the metropolis, are thinking about ‘us’ and most especially about himself; the picture of Stepan Trofimovich Verkhovensky as a marked man because of the liberal views he held and very faintly expressed long ago, both frightens him and feeds his self-importance.

Stepan Verkhovensky kits himself up with umbrella, travelling-bag, walking stick, broad-brimmed hat, belted overcoat and top-boots like a hussar's; and — Quixote overlaid for English readers by Pickwick, the White Knight, Mr Toad — he talks the language of ‘high adventure’ and the open road: ‘there's a great idea in the open road too!’
But he avoids the language of destination.
Whereas Mr Golyadkin, incidentally mad, swaddled in a dream of silk ladders and Spanish serenades, aims for Schiller's happy-everafter hut on the shore, Stepan understands he has nowhere to go: ‘to order post-horses one must at least know where one is going.

Given that this was all well-known at the outset what utter fool would believe there could be any money to be made out of such a system.
Well we learned all too well, didn't we?
If any other pioneering company had brought out a call-only cordless telephone, I wonder who would shed tears when it failed to sell.

The convention was adopted that 1Bh introduced a specific sequence of (normally printable) characters which should be interpreted as control information.
However, the coding which follows an ESC character tends to be specific to each application.
This is a major issue, since not only must the control information be interpreted correctly, but the printer must know when the control characters have finished and it should start interpreting the following characters as text again.

As Nuttall has remarked, they claim that,
the dissolution of truth does not mean that no statements are true but only that there is no stable, unchanging absolute truth, and that certainty is persistently elusive.
And the embarrassed questioner retreats, apologising profusely, wondering why he ever fell into such absurd anxiety about this luminously sensible body of doctrine…

An excessively elevated sense of standards means that there are difficulties about English Departments taking on overseas research students in numbers sufficient to help the university in its financial difficulties.
Academics in English are loners reluctant to engage in team projects or pull together in research centres.
They can be irritatingly slow to publish, and it is often difficult to know how they spend their time.

Even PhD students can be approached before they have finished their theses, though the publication of unrevised theses seems to me undesirable, common though it has become: a thesis is written, as a rule, for two examiners, whereas a book, however specialized, should have a rather wider readership in mind.
Certainly, any academic who wants to write a book on a canonical author, topic, or period, is likely to get a contract  without very much formality (particularly if it has to do with ‘women’ or ‘theory’, or ideally both).
This is not the case, though, if the proposed subject is outside the catchment area of school and university examinations, as Terry Lovell discovered when she offered to write a book on Gissing for a leftwing series, which had asked for one on Jane Austen.

The contextualizing of even the simplest poem has no obvious point to end at, once begun.
And the process by which the contextualizing is carried out would itself invite interrogation and theorization; Marxists committed to ‘cultural materialism’ would be impatient of a form of contextualizing founded in the history of ideas.
Similarly, to look at our activity in the self-reflective consciousness provided by ‘theory’ can be salutary; it is a good thing to know what we are doing, and, if possible, why.

and at Limoges the young salesman
bowed with such french politeness ‘No that is impossible.’
I have forgotten which city

and the gulls be as neat on the pond
and the sunken garden unchanged
and God knows what else is left of our London

but Circe was like that
coming from the house of smoothe stone
‘not know which god’

Templum aedificavit
Segesta
I think I know what this might mean, or what it might be made to mean.

Our own case remains unexamined.
How then shall we try men who have examined us more than we have ourselves?
They know what they fight against.

How then shall we try men who have examined us more than we have ourselves?
They know what they fight against.
We do not yet know what we fight for.

On this issue indeed the comparison with Eliot is inescapable, Eliot very early learned and bowed to the English rule that social amenity must not be disturbed — alike in his life-style and, after Poems 1920 , in his poetic style also, he observed this rule punctiliously.
Pound saw him doing it, and chuckled indulgently; it was what he meant by dubbing Eliot ‘the Possum’(opossum, the creature that escapes danger by shamming dead).
And when we remember what Eliot did with the gibe, taking it over in the title of Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats , that collection of whimsical fireside charades in verse, we may well think again about Auden's  comment that in English family life ‘it is becoming to entertain each other with witty remarks, hoaxes, family games and jokes’.

It is perfectly true that there is nothing conclusively in the poem to make us identify the first stair with Dante's Inferno , the second with his Purgatorio , the third with Paradiso ; as there is not (a more piercing uncertainty) anything to determine for us whether ‘the broadbacked figure drest in blue and green’, with his ‘music of the flute’, is an image of what must be renounced in order to achieve Paradise, or else an image of how terrestrial life can most nearly attain the paradisal.
But no one will seriously maintain that the verses do not have a design upon us; that they do not promulgate a message — the message that all secular explanations of human life are vain and inadequate.
That the alternative religious explanation should still not know what value to put on ‘music of the flute’— this will be experienced by some as a cruel disappointment, by others as a welcome acknowledgement that dogmatic certainty on the large scale can comprehend uncertainties on the small.

In that year comparisons of Eliot with Pound were stimulated, and exacerbated, by the publication of what were called the ‘drafts and transcripts’ of The Waste Land ; that is to say, the heterogeneous packet of typescripts and manuscripts which Eliot had dumped on Pound in Paris, out of which Pound had helped Eliot to extricate the poem that for forty years had been known under that title.
In most ways this book reflected great credit on both poets, and was affecting evidence of their mutual trust, of how their common dedication to the poetic calling had precluded any taint of rivalry or wounded amour-propre .
On the other hand the material which Eliot had put into Pound's hands turned out to be so inchoate that many readers were led to wonder how far the poem as they had it all these years was in any authentic sense Eliot's at all.

ln his Introduction Eliot declares roundly: ‘Pound's critical writings, scattered and occasional as they have been, form the least dispensible body of critical writing in our time’.
The italics are Eliot's.
Those who have read him know how seldom he declares himself thus roundly and emphatically.

And we are astonished.
It had not occurred to us that this ranging survey of the idioms of English and incidentally French verse had been no more than a  ‘prologue’— and to what, for heaven's sake?
But Pound has not forgotten what his assignment is.

It had not occurred to us that this ranging survey of the idioms of English and incidentally French verse had been no more than a  ‘prologue’— and to what, for heaven's sake?
But Pound has not forgotten what his assignment is.
He believes, or he chooses to believe, that in Chicago or somewhere else there were readers of Poetry magazine in 1918 who zealously and in all seriousness wanted to know what French poets of that time they might profitably read, and what in the broadest terms they should look for in each of them.

By 1913 Pound is confiding in his fiancée as, we must believe, he did to no one else.
In their private code Yeats, who was to marry Dorothy's cousin and best friend Georgie Hyde-Lees, figures as ‘the Eagle’.
And in 1913 we have Pound writing of Yeats, who had just published ‘The Grey Rock’, that the latter is ‘very fine, but his syntax is getting obscurer than Browning's’, then confessing: ‘I wonder which is worse, to die in the aromatic subtlety of a disappearing cadence (à la ME) or to stodge one's nobility into an incomprehensible narrative,à la The Eagle’.

We actively desired an ever closer union of the European peoples, but it was not laid down how and when this was to be achieved.
It was a matter first of embarking on practical ways of increasing harmony and creating a single market.
Mr Cash is convinced he knows where this is all leading.

As many as 100,000 soldiers are still encamped around Peking.
Soldiers stand guard on street corners and roam the city at night.
Occasional gunshots can still be heard, though no one seems to know who fires the guns and if anyone is hit.

Lebanese MPs scrape rust off government machinery
From ROBERT FISK in Taif, Saudi Arabia
IT IS difficult to know who is the more isolated: the 62 members of the Lebanese Parliament or the 73 members of the Lebanese press corps.

Thomson could control words with the same fastidiousness as notes.
He always felt that effective musical criticism began by being well written, and he never lost his liveliness.
One never quite knew what he was going to say next.

The West German Ambassador, Hermann Huber, who earlier in the day told the new arrivals the transfer of 4,000 to West Germany was a ‘one-off action’, appeared again to tell them: ‘For the time being we are letting you in.’
Hans-Dietrich Genscher, the West German Foreign Minister, went on television to say he hoped for a ‘parallel solution’ for the new arrivals.
In Warsaw, dozens of East Germans were last night waiting in front of the embassy, filling out forms and wondering where they would spend the night.

In fact, almost everything before seven is business news with men in suits watching over the pound like doctors: ‘And the latest news from Tokyo — it seems to be a little better.
..’ Nor is it merely the heavy stuff which comes with serious credentials.
Sally Jones, the sports presenter, clearly knew what the plural of Grand Prix was.

But then there came ‘new’ comedy to blow away the medieval cobwebs; and then there came Russell Davies to make documentaries about it, with titles like There's A Racial Stereotype In My Soup (Radio 4 Saturday).
It's only ten years since the Comedy Store opened, but already there is a note of wistfulness creeping in for the good old days.
Arthur Smith sighed for political satire, and wondered what was going to happen to political comedy if we get a Labour government.

Brains are racked, in vain, for that elusive ‘big idea’— what comes after Mrs Thatcher, the next item on history's agenda — if there is one.
In the absence of the big idea, one good phrase would be a help, something to focus the uncertain and suggestible mood of the country and put its finger on what it is that is missing and wanted after 10 years of Mrs Thatcher.
By the end of this week we shall know what the Labour Party no longer stands for, such as unilateral nuclear disarmament and full-scale nationalisation; but what, in essence, does it stand for?

Now Eurotunnel says that £7bn could be nearer the mark, while the banks and the consortium involved in the construction work believe that far bigger sums will be necessary.
The tunnel is due to open in 1993.
Who knows what the costs will look like by then?

Yet, if he refuses, or if he fails in any attempt, the banks could, in theory, take over the company which is in default of several loan agreements.
Mr Morton and his colleagues will have to answer some awkward questions, not least from small investors, many of whom bought into the company attracted by the perks and the sense of excitement as much as by a detailed understanding of the economics of the enterprise.
They will want to know how Eurotunnel got its sums so badly awry.

They've improved the chimney recently and it's very much better than it was but we still get the smells.
And since they've refused repeatedly to have a public inquiry into what is going on there we're not certain of the safety of what's coming out.
We get smoke from the steel works across the valley, but we know what that is and we're not afraid of it.’

Back along the waste chain, the Liverpool dockers who objected to the import of exactly this type of chemical should be aware that PCBs are moving about our roads all the time.
There was no difference between the liquid in these drums and the liquid in the cargoes they refused to touch.
In Liverpool, a dockers' spokesman with the Transport and General Workers Union admitted: ‘Drivers aren't happy handling some of these commodities, but at least a lorry-driver has more idea of what he is handling than a docker, who could have a consignment and just not know what it is.’

But still there may be some wriggling to come.
A group of English players are reported to be bitter at having been left out of the squad for next week's world team championships, and inevitably, the name of the game for the next couple of days in the Open, which starts today, will be to try to make monkeys of those who omitted them.
The man with the most to prove is Phil Kenyon, who has accused the selectors of favouritism and goodness knows what else besides.

OCTOGENARIAN American architect Philip Johnson once said: ‘Architecture is very much like the oldest profession in the world.
It has only one aim and that is to please for a fee.’
I wonder what Johnson might make of this press release from the British architects RMJM?

He could have boasted to world leaders of the model communist state he and his comrades have created, now widely recognised in the world, with happy contented people enjoying the highest standard of living in the Eastern bloc.
He could have basked in the illusion of being a benevolent father-figure to his people, actually loved and appreciated and secure in the knowledge that even after he went, things would go on along the tracks he had laid down.
Now he must be wondering how he is going to get through the week.

The thousands of East German refugees in West German embassies, the tens of thousands who have poured out to the West through Hungary are a terrible and unending indictment of his Stalinist regime.
Worse still, the embassy refugees manoeuvred him into an impossible corner.
They knew how desperately he and his comrades wanted to celebrate their day amid sweetness and light.

This raises two important issues.
First, is it an ethical investment policy to encourage people to try to have their cake and eat it?
Second, isn't there an urgent need for a fundamental rethinking of the accounting conventions by which company performance is measured, if would-be ethical investors are to know how environmentally friendly the companies in which they invest really are?

Professor Akira Fujiwara, an acknowledged expert on the Rape of Nanking who was called as one of the witnesses in the case, said that ‘in spite of the government's promise to correct bias in history textbooks, the screening system has actually got worse since the 1982 diplomatic protests.
The people of Nanking, Korea and Singapore haven't forgotten the cruelties of the past.
The Japanese are now the only ones who don't know what went on.’

Education and training were now ‘the commanding heights of every modern economy’, Mr Kinnock declared.
Britain needed an economy of all the talents.
He said said the Government was keeping interest rates high because it did not know what else to do.

Take the point about withdrawing attention.
For someone like me with a lot of children it would be like running a penal colony.
‘You'd have to remember who you weren't speaking to, who was on fatigues.

In common with several top players, Lendl is less than enamoured of the delays in promulgating a set of rules for the Tour which meet the desires of the competitors.
In response, certain players are procrastinating over signing their contracts — the deadline was on Monday — with the tour organisers.
‘I don't know what the position is,’ Lendl said disdainfully.

QPR explained yesterday how Kenny Sansom, their former England left-back, was left behind after the goalless draw against Stockport County on Monday.
Sansom, capped 86 times for England, was still talking to friends in the players' bar at Stockport County last night when the rest of the squad left on the team bus after their 2-1 aggregate victory.
‘I don't know what all the fuss is about,’ Clive Berlin, QPR's managing director, said.

A TWO-WOMAN firm based in east London believes it has found a niche in the staff recruitment market by acting as a broker between companies and recruitment agencies.
Caroline Gordon, who has set up Beaver Recruitment Brokers with Joan Tannian, said that the market was flooded with recruitment agencies which created confusion among companies with positions to fill.
Companies can find it difficult to know which agencies they should approach and, according to Ms Gordon, often become frustrated with the agencies for sending along unsuitable applicants.

HARRISONS & Crosfield must really dislike being classified as an overseas trader if it is willing to go through the complex process of changing its listing only to end up as a miscellaneous industrial.
The move is symbolic of what has been going on at H&C since George Paul, the chief executive, took over two years ago.
H&C's management knows where it does not want to be, and has distanced itself from the previously volatile structure with some skill.

After a month of putting government education ideology into practice, life in her classroom is pretty much what it always was.
Even as the first-year girl drew her inferences, her headmaster, Manuel Lenarduzzi, was preparing for last night's meeting with her parents and those of other first-year children who are the guinea pigs of the new system and whose future is one of attainment targets.
Much of Mr Lenarduzzi's material for the meeting, designed to clarify the national curriculum, relied on inference because, as yet, only maths and science is actually taught under the guidelines issued by the Department of Education and Science, and nobody knows how attainment testing will work.

Much of Mr Lenarduzzi's material for the meeting, designed to clarify the national curriculum, relied on inference because, as yet, only maths and science is actually taught under the guidelines issued by the Department of Education and Science, and nobody knows how attainment testing will work.
Rumour and uncertainty abound, suggesting, this week, that pupils' achievements will be measured by formal test rather than by their teachers' assessment.
But who knows what the grapevine will bear next week?

At Gillingham, in close consultation with the primary and middle schools which feed the comprehensive, the science department is working on the list of 17 attainment targets including (5) Human Influences on the Earth,(15) Using Light and Electro-Magnetic Radiation, and (17) The Nature of Science.
Children's grasp of these knotty subjects is monitored and tested through the four Key Stages (aged 5-7, 8-11, 12-14 and 15-16) of their educational career.
But here, Mr Lenarduzzi and his staff perceive a recurrent problem: ‘How do you know when a child can do something?’ he asks.

And Columbus, Ohio, postal clerks spoke 40 per cent more syllables per second than their colleagues in Los Angeles.
Unfortunately, the researchers missed out Washington DC, where many Americans have been worried recently about the pace of the Bush presidency.
Many would love to know, for instance, whether there any clocks in the White House which show the time in Moscow, or Warsaw, or Budapest, because people wonder why Mr Bush and Company appear to be falling so far behind in their reaction to the pace of life in those cities.

Unfortunately, the researchers missed out Washington DC, where many Americans have been worried recently about the pace of the Bush presidency.
Many would love to know, for instance, whether there any clocks in the White House which show the time in Moscow, or Warsaw, or Budapest, because people wonder why Mr Bush and Company appear to be falling so far behind in their reaction to the pace of life in those cities.
In short, after promising to hit the ground running, people wonder why the President has become the leader of the Slow Is Beautiful Movement.

And one of Arrow's pilots, Jacobo Bolivar, was one of the three principals of Sur International, the company which flew weapons from the US to Iran for Lieutenant-Colonel Oliver North in 1985.
‘We need some people to be made to testify under oath so we can find out what went wrong with that investigation,’ said Mr Laframboise, stressing that, at this point, it does not matter that most of the physical evidence has been destroyed.
Neither Mr Tallon nor the families of the crash victims claim to know what occurred.

It's difficult to get matches under your belt when you're like that.
Winning has to become a habit.’
At the age of 29, Durie must be wondering how much longer she has left to get hooked on that habit which she toyed with briefly six years ago when she reached the lofty heights of the world's top five.

‘They told me that as long as I did not rush back too quickly, I should have another four or five years.
I'm not necessarily out of the Commonwealth Games.
I shall know when I'm a fit man.

ART SHELL'S appointment as the new head coach of the Los Angeles Raiders makes him the the first black in that position in modern NFL history, but the club's owner, Al Davis, immediately played down the importance of the move.
‘It will only really be meaningful and historic if he is a great success,’ Davis said soon after firing the existing head coach Mike Shanahan.
Shell, 42, said: ‘It is an historical event and I understand the significance of it, but the main thing is I know who I am and I'm proud of it.

Songs For ‘Drella, their 14-song tribute to mentor Andy Warhol, who subsidised The Velvet Underground, will be performed at the Brooklyn Academy of Music Festival in November before the pair enter the studio.
Cale talks solemnly about unfinished business, ‘in terms of the arrangements that we worked so hard on on that first Velvet Unferground album.
I don't think Lou remembers how hard we worked, but it was every weekend for 18 months, going over and over these songs until we had all these dismembered arrangements we became famous for.

Abse puts his faith in Heseltine, whom I have never been able to take seriously as a politician.
Perhaps we should all start trying, since he is the only one who has dared raise his standard against her.
I wonder how he performed on the potty?

Consider, for example, the new students who this week begin courses at universities and polytechnics.
Because of the limited recruitment and early retirements in recent years, most of their teachers will come from what is loosely known as the ‘Sixties generation’.
That is, their memories may just go back to Suez, they can remember where they were when Kennedy was assassinated and their formative political years were dominated by the Wilson government at home and the Vietnam war abroad.

That is, their memories may just go back to Suez, they can remember where they were when Kennedy was assassinated and their formative political years were dominated by the Wilson government at home and the Vietnam war abroad.
The new students, however, were born when Heath was Prime Minister and negotiating entry into what was then the Common Market.
They cannot remember when Britain was not part of the European Community or when there were not ‘troubles’ in Northern Ireland.

From MRS BARBARA TIDMAN
Sir: Can nothing be done to stop these wildcat strikes by escalators on the Underground?
I do not know how they communicate with each other, but their organisation is formidable.

Frank was arrested as he tried to cross into Czechoslovakia.’
'The Czechs shot at us.’
Six-year-old Robert, clutching a small brown teddy bear, will remember how he missed school to go on a sudden ‘holiday’.

The event also breaks with past practices in other respects.
There will be no representative of any foreign communist party at the event, not even Moscow's man, because they have not been invited.
And no time limit has been set for the congress, simply because no one knows how long it will last and how it will end.

As a mother, she says she sees the parents' point of view.
‘I look at the mothers to whom I am going to have say it and I say ‘bloody hell, if I was in her shoes how would I feel, what would I do?’
‘I hope I know how I would behave, but you don't know until it happens to you.

AN AMBULANCE workers' union leader yesterday accused Kenneth Clarke, the Secretary of State for Health, of intransigence, as union officials prepared for today's meeting at Acas.
Roger Poole, the staff's chief negotiator, and a senior Nupe official, said: ‘Kenneth Clarke's refusal to talk proves conclusively who is responsible for the continuation of the dispute.
Mr Clarke knows how serious this dispute is but he is prepared to risk people's lives rather than talk.’

So long as there is a full right of appeal against a refusal of leave — a right which the present Government sought, at one stage, to abolish — this handicap is acceptable, even though it places public authorities in a more privileged position than the ordinary litigant.
A less acceptable handicap is the special rule that the application for judicial review must normally be made within only three months from the decision complained of.
It is in the public interest for challenges to the exercise of public powers to be made promptly, so that the administration and citizens alike know what the law is.

It was decided that Ajax should forfeit the tie and thereafter be excluded from European competition for the next two seasons for which they qualify.
The club's chairman, Michael Van Praag, who was not invited into the hearing, said that Ajax would accept the forfeit but appeal against the ban in Geneva next Friday.
He said: ‘We have very good arguments to prove that we cannot be held responsible for the actions of a few people who did not know what they were doing.

Between Berlusconi and RAI it is now open warfare.
Italian league football matches are not televised live, although this does not prevent RAI radio and television from broadcasting a pyrotechnic package of live audio reports from the grounds on a Sunday.
(Next time you are on holiday in Italy, do not wonder why half the male population is out for its Sunday afternoon post-pasta stroll with a transistor clutched to one ear from which blares an urgent voice.

In reciprocation, Glaswegians roll the name Dziekanowski off the end of their tongues with ease, happy to acknowledge his impact on the city and keen to extend the warmest of welcomes.
What happens to ‘Jacki’ at the end of his contract is unclear, but uncertainty has become an occupational hazard.
‘I don't know what I'll do eventually,’ he said.

The gift-shop used to be a farmhouse, one of several owned by the skinflint farmer Boris who made his fortune by never paying bills.
The house now belongs to a buxom blonde from Lyon, wife of a driving instructor.
When Boris began sleeping with her, villagers who wondered what would happen if the husband found out were told by wiser villagers: ‘If you'd lived in a big town you'd know that the husband knows.’

There are many people in Hungary nursing stab wounds in the back who can testify to Mr Pozsgay's first-class conspiratorial skills, but few have caught him wielding the knife.
Lacking the stomach for open combat, Mr Pozsgay unleashes terror on his opponents by proxy, when they least suspect it.
When one quiet weekend this February Mr Grosz left the country on a short trip to Switzerland, little did he know what would await him on his return.

She thinks the microwave ‘has changed our perceptions of time, much as telephones changed them at the turn of the century’.
Her proof is in the restaurant trade: ‘Even fast food restaurants (do) not seem fast, because at home you don't have to wait in line.’
You know how it is with these developments.

‘The porterage system is antiquated but it works efficiently.
If we could think of a better system we would introduce it.
‘Customers are coming back to Billingsgate because they know what they are getting.

The West German embassy in Prague, where thousands of people had taken refuge, is now surrounded by Czechoslovak police, who check the identities of all comers and have sent away numerous would-be refugees.
Film of the riots in Dresden on Wednesday have reached the West, with evidence that they were more violent than first thought.
A West Berlin radio station said a young man was killed — it was not known how — and that another lost both legs when hit by a train.

On a new estate, there may be nothing.
In an old garden, there may be a fruit tree, or a good bulwark of evergreen laurel or box that, tidied up, could add a dash of venerability to the new garden that will emerge around it.
If you do not know what a tree or shrub is, exercise clemency and give it a year's grace to demonstrate its worth before you turn it over to the axeman.

Do not let anybody, particularly gardening writers, tread on your dreams.
All this thinking and doodling will have done nothing physically to change the view outside the window, but it is a vital part of the gardening process.
Before you can make, you have to know what it is you are making.

The fatalities were in the London area and involved collapses.
Both involved a delay of about an hour, and in the second case an officer was forced to go in a staff car to attend the patient.
A London Ambulance Service spokesman said: ‘We are aware of the two cases where people died and they are being investigated to discover what happened.’

Lord Aldington replied: ‘That's what you tell me.
I'm not surprised they were.’
Mr Rampton suggested if Lord Aldington had not known what would happen to the Yugoslavs, he was the only person in his corps who did not.

Popularity of police to be tested by survey
By MALCOLM PITHERS, Northern Correspondent
POLICE forces throughout the country are taking part in a survey to discover how effective, efficient and popular the police are.

Helping punters outwit the bookies is something that gives Brittain real pleasure and he recalls with pride how an acquaintance made an exceptionally nice profit when the trainer's Terimon took second place to Nashwan in this year's Derby.
At odds of 500-1, Terimon became the longest-priced horse ever to be placed in the Epsom Classic.
‘A man I know who works in a tailor's shop in London backed Terimon in a forecast with Nashwan at 2,000-1,’ Brittain explains.

At odds of 500-1, Terimon became the longest-priced horse ever to be placed in the Epsom Classic.
‘A man I know who works in a tailor's shop in London backed Terimon in a forecast with Nashwan at 2,000-1,’ Brittain explains.
‘He won enough to set himself up in his own business, so if you see a ‘Terimon Cafe’ on the outskirts of London you'll know how it got the name.’

Maurice Roworth, the Forest chairman, said: ‘We have a duty to our supporters and the team to provide a ground worthy of the success the club has had.
Work would already have started on improving what we already believe to be one of the country's most modern and safe grounds.
‘But we cannot do anything until we know what will be expected of football clubs in the future in terms of all-seater grounds or any other issues.

Work would already have started on improving what we already believe to be one of the country's most modern and safe grounds.
‘But we cannot do anything until we know what will be expected of football clubs in the future in terms of all-seater grounds or any other issues.
Until we get the full implications of the Taylor Report and discover what happens over the identity-card issue, we will have to sit tight.

‘But we cannot do anything until we know what will be expected of football clubs in the future in terms of all-seater grounds or any other issues.
Until we get the full implications of the Taylor Report and discover what happens over the identity-card issue, we will have to sit tight.
But feasibility studies have been carried out and we should be in a position to act when we know what is expected.’

Just because he is a professor of medicine at Cambridge does not make his findings unquestionable.
He admitted he has no experience of animal bites.
He does not know what a hyena can do to a human body.’

Boris had got back two months early to organise it.
But then, he was a sixth- or seventh-year student.
Nobody was quite sure how many degrees he had started and not finished, not even Boris, but he had been at the place so long he could remember when they used to spell it Freshmen's Fair.

Care to join yourself?’
‘Oh, we know all about you,’ said the man.
‘We know how much money from the Freshmen's Fayre has found its way into your bank account over the years.

But she added: ‘Numbers are one thing, effects are another.
The scheme was intended for people of poor or moderate means.
We will need to discover who is really being stopped from going ahead with legal action, or whether people are making choices between legal action or re-mortgaging their house, a holiday, a car or otherwise freeing money which is tied up.’

It is impossible to recall contaminated eggs as they are distributed to packing stations around the country, where they are packed under British brand names.
A ministry spokeswoman said the testing was ‘not intended to stop the eggs going onto the market’.
It was to help discover which EC states had a salmonella problem and to improve controls throughout the EC.

‘I want escapism.
I want Showbiz.’
Everybody knows who Shirley Bassey is.

I want Showbiz.’
Everybody knows who Shirley Bassey is.
They may never have heard one of her records, but when Joe Longthorne, or any of those impressionists who have made a career perfecting the quiver of her lip, does his Shirley Bassey everyone knows who he means.

Everybody knows who Shirley Bassey is.
They may never have heard one of her records, but when Joe Longthorne, or any of those impressionists who have made a career perfecting the quiver of her lip, does his Shirley Bassey everyone knows who he means.
The two elderly Americans who squeezed past her chair ('Hey Harry, have you signed the bill? ') knew who she was.

The ending is very important.
The Bassey end.’
She had been rehearsing a new song on the way to the Ritz, but didn't know who wrote it.

‘Through refining our feed, by leaving things out and seeing what happens, we have been able to define the dietary requirements of the prawn throughout its development.
We've learnt about its physiology and how it changes to keep pace with the larva's changing eating habits.
‘We know how fast food moves through its gut, how much energy it takes to make one post-larval prawn from the day it hatches, and so on.

as if they were stuck in the 1950s, the civil servants could see no way in which consumer, environmentalist or the broader public interest could be represented.
In stark contrast, industry seems almost eager to put all its cards on the table.
Keith Pike, a manager of ICI Seeds, told the meeting that ‘industry likes to know where it stands.

In stark contrast, industry seems almost eager to put all its cards on the table.
Keith Pike, a manager of ICI Seeds, told the meeting that ‘industry likes to know where it stands.
We are investing millions in these technologies and we want to know what are the rules of the game before we take the risk of bringing a product to the marketplace.’

Slow progress in the war on diabetes: Nicholas Russell says investigative research may beat flashy technology
By NICHOLAS RUSSELL
ONE IN 50 Britons suffers from sugar diabetes and, despite 100 years of scientific study, we still do not know how it is caused.

Rugby Union: Johnston wraps up recovery
By BILL LEITH
Selkirk…. 16 Boroughmuir.. 9 EVEN with three replacements permissible it is not always possible to cover the loss of a key player, as Boroughmuir discovered when suffering their third defeat in four years at the hands of Selkirk, this time by a 16-9 margin.

On the other side, it is widely believed that Kerr's ambitions are backed by money belonging to Jack Gillespie, a director of Rangers.
The plot, should there be such a thing, thickens as Fleeting has consistently put more cash on the table than his opponent.
On the other side of Ayrshire, Ally MacLeod discovered how painfully short his Ayr United side are of becoming genuine challengers for promotion out of the First Division.

-You notice teams of British Rail gardeners and foresters chopping, cutting and burning the vegetation growing alongside railway lines like East German border guards improving their arc of fire and wonder idly what they do the rest of the year.
-The only cricket stories in the newspapers are suddenly about winter tours of places you didn't even know played cricket.
-You start forgetting where you went on holiday this summer.

This public backlash against the shoddy, callous and spivvy aspects of Mrs Thatcher's administration does not derive from the sense of chronic economic crisis which infected the politics of the 1970s but, rather, is born of prosperity.
Prolonged prosperity is as likely as prolonged adversity to engender the mood that it is time for a change.
Today people are wondering why a country which, according to Mr Lawson not long ago, was experiencing an ‘economic miracle’, has been reduced to such public squalor — dirty, violent, congested and broken down, prone even to third-world disasters?

The Khmer Rouge had no mercy for any Vietnamese they took prisoner, and many Vietnamese soldiers preferred to kill themselves rather than be captured.
‘I thought I would use a grenade’, said Vu Van Hau, a 22-year-old Vietnamese soldier who served for three years in Kompong Cham and Kompong Thom provinces, before returning to his native Ho Chi Minh City as part of the September withdrawal.
Hau knew what the Khmer Rouge could do.

But Somalia's refugees may have suffered a less appalling fate than the hundreds of thousands of Ethiopian refugees in Somalia, who have existed in desolate camps for nearly 10 years.
These camps have been attacked by both government forces and the SNM, with at least 241 refugees killed.
The UNHCR has been forced to abandon them, and no one knows what has become of their inhabitants.

Fashion takes great leap backwards
From ANDREW HIGGINS in Peking
FORGET WHAT they might think in Paris and Milan: China's fashion commissars have decreed what is and is not stylish.

An undergraduate met by chance on the campus walkway might be treated to one of his brilliant, spontaneous tutorials, the kind normally only dreamt about, while a group of colleagues over whose meeting he was to preside gazed at an empty chair.
Conducting a graduate seminar on the unpromising topic of textual variants he would hold the room spellbound for two hours by his unforced erudition.
He was the possessor of learning which he shared unselfishly with his students, making them feel it was just as much theirs as his.

' The initial shock was distressing, but after a night's sleep, nature's chemistry had wrought its miracle and Belinda fell completely in love with her daughter.
‘I felt high for about four days, not thinking about anything but caring for her.’
As an anxious new father, Belinda's partner, Jem, read everything he could find about Down's syndrome because he wanted to know what he could expect from the future.

I can't bring them here although I'd like to, and I can't be with them safely.
I'm here for some time, not forever.
I don't know what will happen.’

The technology has brought Britain to the forefront of speech recognition in nine months — thanks to a team of three researchers, Dr Roger Moore, of the Royal Signals and Radar Establishment, says.
The advance has proved highly accurate in recognising continuously spoken airborne reconnaissance reports for the Royal Air Force.
Until now reconnaisance pilots, because their hands and eyes are fully occupied, have had to remember what they see and compile reports later.

Fine strong-man/trapeze element, brilliant trick biker, ridiculous clowns, sublime running gags, over-hyped, under-used chainsaws, expensive tickets (£8) but a great night out.
Big Top, Clapham Common, SW4 (498 1528) Tue-Sun 8.30pm (Sat mat 3pm) To 27 Oct.
Flying Pickets Veterans of the alternative circuit, a capella one-and-a-bit hit wonders who have put their signatures to show themes (remember the accompaniment to the floating condoms in Porterhouse Blue?), here with a show of sketch-like songs loosely based on the theme of ‘work’.

Government reports assert that Captain Lorenzo hanged himself in his cell.
Family members at his funeral said they do not believe official accounts.
‘We know who is doing the killing,’ said one.

Members still suffer for their faith, for instance, by being denied university education or worthwhile jobs.
Both the church and the Communist Party ban dual membership.
No one, including the church itself, knows how many members it has.

Nothing inadequate about his physical acting but his voice was his asset, the driest, most pungent of sherries at the command, so often, of Shakespeare's verse, utterly lacking the fruitiness and histrionics of so many over-tired classical actors of his generation.
His performances were ever at the service of the text, and invariably characters were created.
I never felt: ‘Oh, so old Dignam's playing Claudius’(or whomever); always: ‘I wonder what Dignam will make of Claudius?’

‘I think that this argument about objectivity is nonsense.
As the director I have the big advantage that I know all the melodies.
I do, however, keep giving the actors directions which belong to a five-week rehearsal period and then have to tell them to forget what I've just said.

By MARY KENNY
‘YOU WON'T ask me about abortion, will you?’ said Lord Joseph, apprehensively.
No, of course not, I replied, wondering why he had brought the subject up: why, too, was he so anxious to avoid it?

Every day the children worry about their Hallowe'en costumes for the school fancy dress parade.
A sharp note has come home informing me that the costume must be made by the child.
We all know what that means — it will take 10 times as long.

His technique is simple but effective; he looks at the war ‘from the bottom up’.
He cares neither for the broad sweep of grand strategy nor for the narrow focus of specific campaigns, so he ignores both government archives and the memoirs of the great and the good.
What Fussell is looking for are the records of the little people, to discover what the war was like for them.

As well as A-level history and English, she is studying French and performing arts for AS (half an A) exams and psychology for GCSE.
‘I wanted to be a primary teacher, and you have to teach so many different things at that level that it seemed better to study a broader range of subjects,’ she says.
Joanna Kemp, also at Luton, is taking A-level music and English, and AS-level courses in psychology, music and drama, not because she knows what she wants to do, but because she doesn't.

Mr Prescott said that the Safety Authority ought to have been able to answer the questions without reference to Eurotunnel.
The questions, which Mr Prescott also raised with Cecil Parkinson, the Secretary of State for Transport, and the Health and Safety Executive, centre on the £600m order for rolling stock made earlier this year, although the issue of whether passengers should stay with their cars or be segregated had not been resolved.
Mr Prescott wanted to know why the order had been made before the Safety Authority was satisfied with the non-segregation procedure; whether the design was ‘open ended’ and could be adapted to separate passengers from their cars; and whether, by acting before getting firm permission from the authority, the order had been made entirely at Eurotunnel's own risk.

AS THE pound continued to sink, moving below the symbolic DM2.95 figure on the foreign exchanges, and shares plummeted, Nigel Lawson yesterday went into retreat at his Leicestershire constituency home to draft tomorrow's make-or-break speech for the Conservative conference.
The Chancellor had left Blackpool late on Monday night, after addressing party agents, but conference jitters were so great that his unexpected disappearance prompted rumours that he had gone back to London for crisis talks.
Those rumours were quickly quashed by the Treasury, but there remained an underlying conference mood of expectation and anticipation; wondering how Mr Lawson would respond to party concern about the economy.

While Jackson, who had just returned from filming a television clip, was mildly bemoaning the pressure it had placed on him to be ‘incredibly entertaining for one minute’, his press officer was engaged in ordering him a beer from room service.
Her hand cupped over the receiver, she began to relay the endless continental choices, in a list sounding like a Bavarian family tree.
You noticed a vaguely pained expression enter Jackson's eyes, as if he was wondering why nothing ever proved simple.

After all, at a time when the British musical was despised, he did write, direct and star in several notable exceptions to the rule — a sort of Kenneth Branagh of the early Sixties, except that Branagh's yet to take Broadway, doesn't compose music, and has never had a No 1 record.
‘I'm basically a loner in a collaborative field, and I thought everything was possible,’ says Newley.
‘I sometimes wonder what it would be like if Stop The World had had a proper director, who did it for a living.

This compares with a rights issue price of 20p and a price of 102p last year when Lowndes took over Harris Queensway for £450m.
Sales, on a like-for-like basis, were down nearly 10 per cent, with operating losses of £5.2m.
Eddie Dayan, Lowndes' managing director, said it was too early to know how the latest round of interest rates would affect sales, but the company has put on hold its £10m store refurbishment programme, which was three-quarters complete.

‘In less than 80 days?’ said somebody.
There was laughter.
Before I knew where I was, I had been wagered a great deal of money that I could not do it, and shortly before midnight I was leaving the hallowed portals of Ronnie Scott's Club.

Such humorous generalisations about ‘national character’ are, of course, deeply suspect, and will soon be banned by Unesco.
Yet in our bones we all know that there is such a thing as national character, even if only a fool or a racist would attempt to define its precise ingredients.
We all exclaim ‘how very French’, ‘how marvellously Irish’ or ‘how ridiculously English’, and we know what we mean.

‘He said he had written a document which would explain everything — all his views on negotiations.
And this document will be distributed among the people, it will be made public.
He says it's very important that people know what negotiations are about.’

She did not report it because she did not think she would be believed.
Police investigated after an anonymous report.
The victim, now 20, said she had drunk nine or 10 Pernods with blackcurrant and was merry, but knew what she was doing and saying.

I sat next to Pat Collins who is a very intelligent and delightful woman.
I felt sorry that she had George Brown, completely pickled, on the other side of her.’
TELEVISION /He knew what he liked

In particular, Simon Slater as the sarky office cad and Annette Badland as Beryl put in performances far above the level of the sitcom script.
Made up of four 30-minute scenes, in each of which the same people say and do the same things in the same setting, Roll On Friday, it is no surprise to learn, has been developed into a five-year television series in New Zealand and Australia.
The only way in which it even faintly stirs your brain cells is in causing you to wonder what on earth it's doing on the stage at Watford.

Just to explode any lingering subtlety, Unberto Eco even has someone ask, ‘Wasn't he a character in Middlemarch?’
It is Casaubon, too, who supplies the most drolly wooden lines.
‘We didn't know’, he says as the three embark on the master plan, ‘that we were playing with fire — Greek fire,’ he adds, ‘the kind that burns and destroys’, in case we don't know what playing with fire means.

By JASON NISSE
THE fact that Mickey Mouse did not turn up in London for the announcement of Eurodisney's share price, preferring to battle it out with anti-Disney demonstrators in Paris, shows where the focus of the Europe-wide issue is.
The issue is on offer in this country until Friday of this week and is likely to attract considerable attention from would be UK investors — not least of all because everyone knows what Disneyworld is.

The Week in Review: Business and City
By ALEXANDRA JACKSON
IN Brazil they are wondering what all the fuss is about.

Does one detect in the week's events the motif of impending immolation?
It transpires that Professor Sir Alan Walters, Prime Minister Margaret ‘Brunnhilde’ Thatcher's favourite economist, is an ardent fan of the late Richard Wagner, composer of Germanic opera cycles.
Do our leaders remember how Gotterdammerung finishes?

By JASON NISSE, Financial Reporter
WH SMITH has dropped its legal action against five directors it dismissed in August from Our Price Music, the record retailing chain it took over three years ago.
WH Smith took out an injunction against the five after it discovered what it says was a plot to launch a music chain to rival Our Price.

Matthew Smith compared him to Van Gogh.
Wyndham Lewis wrote in The Listener: ‘On entering the gallery you are overwhelmed by a rancid vegetation, tropically gigantic…
A little concentration on individual pictures will soon reveal how excellent is the workmanship.’

The Wife (Helen Mirren) and her Lover (Alan Howard) discover their mutual hunger over the hors d'oeuvres, and proceed to reverse the cycle — they couple in the lavatory, are formally introduced in the restaurant, fall in love in the pantry and are expelled into the charnel house of a butcher's van — the price of tasting the fruit of knowledge.
As a precis this is pretentious, and The Cook & Co is full of the hyperbole and complicated allusions that identify a Greenaway work — The Draughtsman's Contract, Drowning By Numbers, for example— but in the darkness of the cinema the film has a stomach-churning directness.
Actual details of food are fleeting: menus flash up, dishes make a brief appearance and the thief wonders why there is salt in the custard (because it is Hollandaise, naturally).

Erich Honecker, the party leader, spoke about the country's problems for the first time in an address to party leaders, but simply echoed the Politburo statement.
He flatly rejected talks with the opposition, saying: ‘We don't need suggestions for the improvement of socialism that are really intended to cause its demise.’
It is not known how many of the people arrested in last Saturday's protests on the night of East Germany's 40th anniversary have been freed.

She had just started her act in the southern city of Adana when Haci Tepe, a member of the ‘Grey Wolves’, an extremist right-wing paramilitary group, demanded she sing an old nationalist song.
She refused, and so he shot her.
Doctors say she may survive: ‘We were very surprised at the strength of her body, after all the…well you know what I mean,’ said one.

Piling on the confusion, Ramish Vassen, a Cape Town lawyer representing three of the prisoners, said he went yesterday to Pollsmoor prison, where they have been kept in recent years, to deliver a suit for one of his clients, Elias Motosaledi.
He did not see any of the prisoners but was led to believe they were still inside.
One of the prison warders, he said, had asked him if he knew when the men were to be released.

She had been restricted on account of her political activities as co-president of the United Democratic Front (UDF) from leaving her house at night, from taking part in public meetings and from making public statements of any kind.
‘This is wonderful,’ Mrs Sisulu said.
‘The whole time since I heard that Walter would be released unconditionally I have been wondering how things will work with him being allowed out at night and to talk to whoever he wishes and me sitting at home in the evenings, gagged.’

Only one terrorist, Fawaz Yunis, has been arrested under the 1984 law and the FBI lured him into international waters to make the arrest.
There was speculation yesterday that the new policy was tailored for the Noriega case.
The ruling would appear to permit the FBI to go into Panama and kidnap General Noriega, but when reporters asked President Bush yesterday morning if that was the case, he said: ‘I'm embarrassed to say I don't know what (the answer) is.’

IT IS the Keats time of year again, when inefficiently brainwashed poetasters grope about trying to remember whatever it was that came after the ‘mellow fruitfulness’ bit.
It is the time for Nature's great conjuring trick, when green leaves become crimson, gold, russet and purple.
Nobody knows when the show is going to take place.

